
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Overview: 
Newton Mobility Grants are offered under the Newton Fund, which is part of the UK’s Official Development 
Assistance (ODA) commitment. These grants provide support for international researchers based in a country 
covered by the Newton Fund to establish and develop collaboration with UK researchers around a specific 
jointly defined research project. These one-year awards are particularly suited to initiate new collaborative 
partnerships, between scholars who have not previously worked together, or new initiatives between scholars 
who have collaborated in the past. The awards will also look to initiate the development of longer-term links 
between researchers from Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey, and researchers from the UK. Award-
holders may subsequently wish to consider applying for other Newton Fund programmes. 
 
Awards might include a range of related activities, although the main purpose of the funding is to cover travel 
and maintenance costs and so mobility (in the form of visits and exchanges, etc.) should form an integral part 
of proposals. Visits and exchanges in both directions can be included. Please note, however, that visits by and 
exchanges of the UK researcher to the partner country must be explicitly for the purposes of providing 
training and transferring knowledge and skills to help strengthen the research capacity of the partner 
country. Partnerships involving scholars in the early stages in their career will be looked on favourably. 
 
Objectives of the British Academy Newton Mobility Grants: 
The primary aims of the Newton Mobility Grants are to:  
• 
Strengthen the research capacity/capability of, and contribute to promoting economic development 
and social welfare in, the Newton Fund Partner country - by facilitating training and skill transfer 
from the UK to partner countries. 
• 
Support excellent research - by linking the best researchers in the UK with the best researchers in 
partner countries and providing support for collaborative research. 
• 
Establish long term research links - between both partners to ensure sustainable research capacity in 
partner countries and benefit to the UK research community in the longer term. 
 
Applicants:  
An applicant based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey, and a Co-Applicant based in the UK are required 
for this scheme and each must have input into the application. Both applicants must have a PhD or equivalent 
research experience and hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research institute, 
which must span the duration of the project. Collaborations should focus on a single jointly defined research 
project involving (or led by) the two applicants. Researchers in more than one institution in the Newton Fund 
partner country and the UK can be involved in the project. For further details please refer to the 
‘Applicant/Co-Applicant Eligibility Details’ section below. 
 
Eligible Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
Researchers in the countries listed below are eligible to apply for the Newton Mobility Grants in this round of 
the scheme. The British Academy has established partnerships with funding organisations in each of these 
countries. These partners are offering similar opportunities for UK researchers wishing to visit partner 
countries. 
 
• Brazil - In partnership with CONFAP  
• Mexico - In partnership with CONACYT 
• South Africa – In partnership with the National Research Foundation 
• Turkey – In partnership with TUBITAK 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
2 
In addition, Newton Advanced Fellowships are available for researchers applying from Brazil, Mexico, South 
Africa and Turkey. Please consult the relevant scheme notes for more information about the Newton 
Advanced Fellowship scheme: http://www.britac.ac.uk/newton-advanced-fellowships.  
 
Subjects Covered: 
These awards will support researchers working in any discipline within the social sciences and humanities. 
The remit of the British Academy funding schemes does not include primarily-practice-based outputs such as 
in musical composition and performance, visual practice, creative writing and film-making. Such outputs 
would be considered to fall within the British Academy’s remit only when they form part of an integrated 
project of critical or historical significance.  
 
Value: 
Grants for Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey are offered up to a maximum of £10,000 for one year. For 
more details see ‘Eligible Activities and Costs’ below. 
 
Duration of Newton Mobility Grants: 
Awards are available for one year. 
 
Transfer of funds: 
The British Academy contribution to the award will be paid to the UK institution. Both applicants and their 
employing institutions will need to agree the most efficient arrangements to transfer the funds to the overseas 
institution. 
 
Timing: 
Awards must not start earlier than 01 March 2018 and not later than 31 March 2018. The awards are for a 
continuous period of one year. 
 
Key Dates: 
 
Closing date and References/ 
Head of Department Statements deadline:  
 
Wednesday, 20th December 2017, 17:00 (UK time) 
 
 
 
Results available: Results of the competition will be confirmed approximately 2-3 months after the application 
closing date. 
 
Contact Information: 
Enquires about this scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us, please check 
whether your question is answered by these scheme notes, and read the Frequently Asked Questions on the 
British Academy’s website. If not, please email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 207 969 5288. 
 
 
Applicant/Co-Applicant Eligibility: 
 
a) Overseas-based Applicant 
 
• 
The researcher based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey (“the Applicant”) must have been 
awarded a doctorate, or have equivalent research experience at the time of application. Applicants 
working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible 
to apply. 
 
• 
Both early career and established researchers are eligible. 
 
• 
Both nationals and non-nationals in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey can apply. Non-nationals 
must outline in the personal statement of the application form how their academic career is committed 
to the Newton Fund partner country. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
3 
 
• 
The Applicant must hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research 
institute in Brazil, Mexico,  South Africa, or Turkey. Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract finishing 
before the end-date of the grant must secure confirmation through their Head of Department Statement 
that their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the award if their application is successful.  
• 
Contact between the overseas Applicant and the Co-Applicant, is essential prior to the application. This 
contact should lead to a clearly defined and mutually beneficial research project proposal. Please note 
that the British Academy will not be able to assist in locating a UK collaborator. However, you may 
wish to refer to the Newton Fund website which provides guidance for how to find UK researchers to 
partner with: http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/funding/application-support/.  
 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from researchers in commercial organisations. 
 
• 
Applicants must be competent in oral and written English. 
 
• 
The Applicant’s employing organisation must be willing to administer the grant. 
 
b) UK-based Co-Applicant 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must be an established researcher of at least postdoctoral (or equivalent) status. Co-
Applicants working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of their viva/submission of corrections 
are not eligible to apply. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in a publicly funded UK university or 
research institute, which includes government research institutes. Co-Applicants must demonstrate that 
they have sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award. Co-Applicants who hold a 
fixed-term contract finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure confirmation through their 
Head of Department Statement that their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the award 
if their application is successful. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must have been awarded a doctorate or have equivalent research experience at the 
time of application. UK Co-Applicant researchers working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of 
their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
 
• 
Both early career and established researchers are eligible. 
 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from private or commercial organisations. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant’s co-host organisation must be willing to agree to administer the grant. 
 
Important: It is not possible to be an Applicant on more than one application to this scheme. 
 
Eligible Activities and Costs: 
 
a) 
Activities 
 
• 
The awards are suited to initiate new collaborative partnerships where, for example, a research 
meeting or visit(s) are held in order to build collaborations and develop research questions and 
hypotheses. 
• 
The application should make clear how the proposal intends to strengthen the research 
capacity/capability of, and contribute to promoting economic development and social welfare in 
Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey. 
• 
Awards might include a range of related activities, but mobility (in the form of visits and exchanges, 
etc.) should form an integral part of proposals. 
• 
The main purpose of the funding is to cover travel and maintenance (accommodation and subsistence) 
costs, although costs related to other eligible activities will be considered. 
• 
Visits and exchanges in both directions can be included. Please note, however, that visits by and 
exchanges of the Co-Applicant to the partner country must be explicitly for the purposes of 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
4 
providing training and transferring knowledge and skills to help strengthen the research capacity 
of the partner country. For example, offering short intensive postdoctoral courses related to the 
research theme in the partner country, supplying teaching elements to courses and developing joint 
curricula, etc. 
• 
Workshops and seminars can form part of the programme, and involve both staff and postgraduate 
students.  
• 
Awards including a training element and involving scholars in the early stages in their career will be 
looked on favourably. However, please note that funding is not available to support international 
travel for postgraduate students. 
 
b) 
Costs:  
 
Grants are offered up to a maximum of £10,000 for one year. 
 
The following costs are eligible: 
 
• 
International and local travel between the UK and Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey.  
• 
Maintenance (accommodation and subsistence) costs incurred during visits.  
• 
Please note: We require evidence that you have researched the costs for which you are seeking support; 
for example, you could include the cost per night of accommodation. Travel costs should be based on 
the most suitable and economical form of travel. Subsistence costs should reflect the normal rates 
applied at the co-host institution/s. 
• 
Visa charges.  
• 
Organisation of workshops and seminars to advance the research as part of the approved programme 
of work. 
• 
Consumables (i.e. purchase of datasets, photocopies, microfilms, etc., and any other minor items that 
will be used up during the course of the project). 
• 
Specialist software (excluding commonly available office packages). 
• 
Costs for language competence building where this is essential to the programme of work and at a 
modest level. 
• 
Postage and printing for visitors. 
 
The following costs are ineligible: 
 
• 
Overhead costs to the institutions concerned. Please note the funding provided by this scheme is not 
calculated on the basis of full economic costs.  
• 
Costs for travel to or from a third country. 
• 
Permanent resources and equipment or any elements that should properly be ascribed to 
departmental or university overheads. 
• 
Computer hardware, including laptops, electronic notebooks, digital cameras etc. 
• 
Books and publications. 
• 
Postgraduate students travel between the UK and overseas. 
• 
Payment as contributions towards or in lieu of salaries or staff costs (including research assistants).  
• 
Replacement teaching costs. 
• 
Personal maintenance at home. 
 
Payments and Reporting: 
The British Academy contribution of the award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both 
applicants and their employing university institutions will need to agree the most efficient arrangements to 
transfer the relevant funds to the overseas institution. The Applicant must provide a final report at the end of 
the award via the Flexi-Grant system. 
  
 
References:  
Two reference statements of departmental support are required for the application.  
 
Departmental Support 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
5 
Under the Departmental Support section, applicants need to input the email addresses of the following two 
individuals: 
 
• 
Head of Department at the Co-Applicant’s UK co-host institution. 
• 
Head of Department at the Applicant’s overseas employing institution. 
 
The Heads of Department are asked to endorse the application and confirm institutional support for the 
project. Applicants will need institutional support because visits, running workshops, offering components of 
taught courses etc, involve institutional resources including office space, meeting rooms, and access to facilities 
amongst other things.  
 
Please note: Applicants and Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract finishing before the end-date of the 
grant must secure confirmation through their Head of Department Statement that their contract will be 
extended to cover the duration of the award if their application is successful. 
 
The supporting statements must be submitted in English; if this presents a difficulty please contact the British 
Academy at the earliest opportunity using the contact details at the end of these notes. 
 
If either the Applicant or the Co-Applicant is the Head of Department, an alternative person will have to be 
found to supply the Head of Department’s statement is required e.g. Head of School/Faculty. 
 
The reference statements must be completed via Flexi-Grant by the application deadline is on Wednesday 20th 
December 2017, 1700 (UK time)). Late references will not be accepted. Any application with missing 
statements will be rejected. It is the Applicant and Co-Applicant’s responsibility to ensure that the 
statements are submitted via Flexi-Grant by the application deadline. Before submitting your application, 
check that the individuals listed in the HOD statement sections are available and willing to provide references 
by the stated deadline. 
 
Once an application has been submitted, applicants are able to check whether references have been submitted 
by viewing their application on Flexi-Grant. 
 
Assessment criteria: 
Successful applications should be strong in all respects but the assessment panel will give consideration to: 
 
• 
Whether the proposal will support training and development of the Applicant and transfer of new skills 
to the Applicant’s research group / network. 
 
• 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
 
• 
The expected benefits to Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey, in particular the extent to which the 
award will contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities which will contribute to 
advancing economic development and social welfare of Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey. 
 
• 
The quality of the proposed research project and the track record of the Applicant and the Co-Applicant 
in the area of proposed research. 
 
• 
Evidence that the Newton Mobility Grant will lead to a longer - term collaboration beyond the tenure 
of the award. 
 
Further Funding Opportunities with Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
There are other funding opportunities, for other countries, and from other funding bodies under the Newton 
Fund; please see www.newtonfund.ac.uk for further information. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
6 
Guidance on Completion of Application Form 
 
Using Flexi-Grant 
 
Applications can only be submitted online using the British Academy’s electronic Grant Application and 
Processing (Flexi-Grant) system via https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com. Applications cannot be 
submitted on paper. If you have not previously used Flexi-Grant, please follow the registration process from 
the Flexi-Grant homepage. Applicants should be aware that this application form will be considered by 
appropriate assessors. The application will be treated as confidential at all times. 
 
When completing your application on the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, it is recommended that 
you take note of the following points: 
 
• 
Personal details: When registered in the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, a user has the option to 
add or update personal information such as contact details, log-in details (including email address and 
password), interests, research and employment details, at any time. This represents a personal record of 
your account in the system, and will help to populate the contact details in any application form you 
complete. It is useful if this information is kept up to date, but it is not essential to the progress of an 
application. 
• 
Automatic log-out: You are strongly advised to save your work regularly to prevent accidental loss of 
information. In particular, you should be aware that if the system does not detect any activity for 2 hours 
it will log out and save the application at that time.  Please note that moving between pages within an 
application form will save the page that you are exiting but completing a field on a page is not considered 
an activity. It is recommended that you write the text for longer sections/fields in a word processor such 
as Word and then copy and paste into the relevant text box to avoid being timed out in this way. 
• 
Multiple sessions: You should not have multiple browser windows/tabs of your application open at the 
same time as this may cause information to be lost.  
• 
Word limits: When completing boxes that have a restricted length (note that it refers to words) you 
should note that if you exceed the specified amount you will not be able to save when you press the save 
button. You should type the text for the longer-length boxes in a word processor. You will then be able to 
check the word count and paste it into the British Academy GMS. You will then still have a copy of the 
text to return to in the word processor. The word limit applies to text boxes. 
• 
Plain text: If entering plain text, please avoid using symbols as some may not be accepted by the British 
Academy GMS. You should generate and view a PDF of your application to check that the application 
appears as you want it to by clicking on print application. 
• 
Uploading PDF documents: When uploading PDF documents, please add your name and a heading at 
the top of every page to show what the document is. Please avoid uploading documents containing 
illustrations with fine details or colour as this can cause problems when creating a PDF of the application. 
Please note we will only print your applications in black and white. Each PDF cannot exceed 3 Mb in size. 
• 
Email addresses: The British Academy GMS relies heavily on automatic email contact. It is essential that 
you ensure you enter accurate email addresses where requested as it may cause considerable delay in the 
submission/processing of your application if any of these are incorrect. You cannot make changes to 
email addresses after your application has been submitted for approval. 
• 
Submission: You will not be able to submit your application until you have completed each section in 
full. It is your responsibility to ensure that your application is submitted in sufficient time for it to be 
approved by the UK organisation. We strongly advise that you submit your application as early as 
possible to allow enough time for your HoD to provide their reference in the system and to allow the 
designated approver at the UK Co-Applicant’s employing organisation at least 5 working days before 
the closing date to allow for the organisation’s administrative procedures. Please note that the 
approving department of the UK university is a central university department. Late applications will 
not be accepted.  
• 
Application sharing: All applications must be started by the applicant who is to be the Principal 
Investigator (PI) on the award. You can invite other contributors to join the application (e.g. Co-
Applicant, Head of Department, Finance Office contact etc.), but in order to do so your contributor will 
need to be registered in the British Academy’s Flexi-Grant® system first. You will need to ensure you 
have their registered email address to invite them to participate in your application. You can let other 
British Academy GMS users view your draft application, in advance of submission, by providing their 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
7 
email address and entering the permissions you want them to have. They will be able to log in using their 
existing password and see your application and depending on permissions, amend your application. 
• 
Application deletion: You can delete your application at any time although it is often a lot easier to just 
re-edit your existing application. We will be able to recover a deleted application for a period of 7 days 
after deletion. After this, it will be permanently removed from the system. 
• 
Application returned for editing The approver can return your application to you for further editing see 
‘Submission of Application’ below. 
• 
Guidance: In the tables below you will find in the left-hand column each question as set out in the 
application sections and in the right-hand column useful guidance on its completion. 
• 
Further clarification: If any of this advice is unclear, or you need further information, please do not 
hesitate to seek clarification from the British Academy’s Research Awards Team (contact details at the 
end of these notes). 
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT YOU CREATE A PDF OF YOUR COMPLETED 
APPLICATION (by clicking ‘Print Application’), AND CHECK IT THOROUGHLY, INCLUDING 
EMAIL ADDRESSES AND UPLOADED PDF FILES, BEFORE SUBMITTING IT FOR 
APPROVAL BY YOUR CO-HOST ORGANISATION. IT MAY NOT BE POSSIBLE TO RECTIFY 
MISTAKES IN TIME FOR THE DEADLINE. 
 
WORD LIMITS APPLY TO PLAIN TEXT ONLY. PAGE LIMITS APPLY TO PDFs ONLY 
 
All FIELDS MARKED WITH AN ASTERISK* ARE MANDATORY 
 
YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE MULTIPLE BROWSER WINDOWS/TABS OF YOUR 
APPLICATION OPEN AT THE SAME TIME AS THIS MAY CAUSE INFORMATION TO BE 
LOST. ONLY ONE USER SHOULD EDIT AN APPLICATION AT A TIME, OTHERWISE 
CHANGES MIGHT BE LOST. 
 
Completing the application form: The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the 
application summary page, with each page categorised as follows: 
 
Page 1: Eligibility Criteria 
Page 2: Lead Applicant Details 
Page 3: Lead Applicant Career Summary 
Page 4 Co-Applicant Career Summary 
Page 5: Research Proposal 
Page 6: Financial Details 
Page 7: Equal Opportunities 
Page 8: Lead Applicant HOD Statement 
Page 9: Co-Applicant HOD Statement 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Summary table 
When your application form is complete, all sections on this summary table will be 
marked as ‘Complete’. The ‘Complete’ status will only appear when all the 
mandatory fields in that section have been completed. All mandatory fields are 
marked with an asterisk ‘*’. Only then will a ‘Submit’ button appear for you to be 
able to submit your application. 
 
PAGE 1: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
 
`PLEASE NOTE: “organisation” refers to the co-host institution which employs your UK-based Co-
Applicant 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
8 
IF AN APPLICATION HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED BY THE APPROVAL DEADLINE IT WILL NOT BE 
ELIGIBLE FOR CONSIDERATION  
 
Eligibility criteria* 
Please confirm that you meet the eligibility criteria as stated on page 3 of these 
guidance notes. On this page you will start to answer questions about your 
eligibility. 
Primary and 
Secondary Subjects 
Your application must be relevant to the Humanities and/or Social Sciences and 
you will need to select the relevant subject areas and fields from the drop-down list 
Time Period 
This field provide the opportunity to give further indications of the relevance of 
your subject area. They are optional fields. 
Employing 
Organisation 
PLEASE 
BE 
AWARE: It is your 
responsibility 
to 
ensure 
that 
you 
complete 
your 
application in time 
for the UK co-host 
organisation 
to 
process 
it 
and 
provide 
their 
approval 
by 
the 
approval 
deadline. 
Once 
they 
have 
checked 
your 
application they will 
contact you if any 
changes 
are 
required. 
It 
is 
recommended 
that 
you allow at least 
five working days 
for this process. 
 
Please enter the UK organization of the Co-Applicant. 
 
This section allows you to choose the UK co-host organisation from the list of eligible 
institutions; you must select the organisation which employs your UK-based Co-
Applicant. The majority of appropriate establishments appear in the drop-down list. 
If your organisation is not there, however, please contact the institution’s research 
support services, or equivalent, and ask them to provide the British Academy with 
contact details of an appropriate person in the organisation to act as an approver 
on its behalf. 
 
All applications must be approved by the UK co-host organisation authorities e.g. 
research grants office, finance department, etc. The approving department will 
receive email notification once you have completed your application and submitted 
it. They will be asked to provide approval and then submit the application to the 
British Academy. It is strongly recommended that the Applicant maintains an open 
dialogue with the approving department at the co-host institution as the British 
Academy cannot be held responsible for emails being caught in spam filters or not 
being received. 
Nationality * 
Please select your nationality from the drop down menu. Up to 3 nationalities may 
be added. Please note that this is a mandatory field. 
 
 
PAGE 2: LEAD APPLICANT DETAILS 
 
This section should be completed by the NON-UK based Applicant 
Lead Applicant Contact Details * 
Please take care to review and complete your personal 
details accurately. Errors in this section can cause 
difficulties in the processing of your application. 
 
You can update your personal details by checking ‘my 
account’ and selecting the link to ‘my contact details’ and 
‘my organisation’ and ensuring the relevant details are up 
to date. 
Place of Ordinary Residence * 
Please enter the country in which your present employing 
institution is based- note this must be Brazil, Mexico, South 
Africa or Turkey. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
9 
Names of Co-Applicant on this application * 
Please enter here the name of the academic based in a UK 
co-host institution, who will be added as the Co-Applicant 
to the application. There must only be ONE Co-Applicant 
per application. 
Other participants, whose involvement does not equate to 
being a ‘Co-Applicant’, should be named in the relevant 
section (other participants) on the Proposal tab. 
Please note: your Co-Applicant will need to be registered 
in the Flexi-Grant system before you begin your 
application. 
 
PAGE 3: LEAD APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
Statement of qualifications and career * 
 
Please give details of up to 4 qualifications in reverse 
chronological order.   
Please also provide details of any significant career breaks 
(for example maternity or sick leave), including dates, in 
the personal statement box – see below 
 
Please include start and end dates in the ‘Qualification 
date’ field. Please include the position title and institution 
in the ‘description’ field. 
 
 
The depth of information you provide is up to you, but this 
will represent you under assessment and so it is worth 
including as much good evidence for your academic merit 
as possible. 
Present Appointment, Employing Institution, 
Present Department, Permanent Position and 
Start / Position End Date* 
Please note that the “Present Employing Institution” must 
be in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey and you 
should be employed by this institution for the duration of 
the award. Please state when your present appointment 
started and is expected to finish. 
Please note:. Applicants/Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-
term contract finishing before the end-date of the grant 
must secure confirmation through their Head of 
Department Statement that their contract will be extended 
to cover the duration of the award if their application is 
successful. 
 If an end date is not applicable as you are in a permanent 
position, please leave the end date blank and choose ‘yes’ 
in response to question ‘Is this position permanent?’ 
Personal Statement 
Applicants are invited to include any information relating 
to their professional career which they wish to be taken into 
account in assessing this application. This field can also be 
used to explain any career breaks, part-time contracts, or 
eligibility for applicants who do not possess a PhD but may 
have equivalent research experience. Applicants who are 
not nationals of the countries from which they are applying 
should explain what ties they have to the country and 
whether these ties are of long duration. This is an optional 
field and the limit is 500 words including spaces. 
PhD Confirmation and Award Date * 
Applicants working towards a PhD, or awaiting the 
outcome of their viva/submission of corrections are not 
eligible to apply. Please therefore confirm that you have a 
PhD by answering yes. If you are an established scholar 
with relevant equivalent experience, but no doctorate, 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
10 
please select ‘no’ and indicate in the ‘personal statement’ 
field why you should be eligible for consideration. 
Please also include start and end dates in the ‘PhD 
Awarded Date’ field. 
Publications * 
Please list principal and/or relevant publications (to a 
maximum of six) in reverse chronological order. You 
should choose not only the best but also those most 
relevant to the application to support your case.  
Previous support 
Please give details of any research funding received within 
the last five years, including current funding. Please 
provide dates, title/description, source, and amount 
awarded.  
Please note duplicate applications for the same purpose to 
more than one British Academy scheme will not be 
accepted. An application will not be eligible for 
consideration if there is a report outstanding on any 
previous research grant awarded by the British Academy 
to the Applicant. 
Curriculum Vitae Upload 
Please upload your current Curriculum Vitae to the Flexi-
Grant® GMS 
Where did you hear about this scheme? 
Please indicate where you heard about this scheme. 
 
 
PAGES 4 CO-APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
PLEASE NOTE: In order to be eligible for this scheme you must have identified a UK Co-Applicant, who 
should be an academic based in an eligible institution located in the UK. Details of just ONE Co-Applicant 
should be entered for this scheme and you must ensure that a Co-Applicant has been added to the 
application and that all Co-Applicant tabs (Co-Applicant Personal Details and Co-Applicant Career 
Summary) have been completed before submitting your application. Any applications with blank Co-
Applicant tabs will not be processed. 
 
Specify Co-Applicant and 
add personal details and 
career summary / CV * 
Your Co-Applicant will need to have an existing account in the system 
before you are able to add them to the application. If they do not have an 
account, they will need to register themselves on Flexi-Grant before you are 
able to complete this section. 
Please click ‘Add Co-Applicant’, enter the Co-Applicant’s Flexi-Grant 
registered email address and then click ‘Next’. Confirm the user by clicking 
‘Next’ then select the permissions you wish the sharer to have with your 
application and then click ‘Finish’. Please note that you must assign them at 
least some permissions in order for the Co-Applicant function to work, and at 
least access to ‘Co-Applicant Personal Details’ ‘Co-Applicant Career 
Summary’ and ‘Proposal’; it is up to you whether to allow them access to other 
sections. It is possible to go back each step by clicking ‘Previous’. 
Once you have clicked on the ‘Finish’ button, your Co-Applicant will be able 
to view your application and, depending on permissions, amend and submit 
your application.  
If you choose to do this, the sharer needs to click on My Applications once 
they have logged on to see your application. 
The Co-Applicant can then complete the Co-Applicant tabs themselves, or 
can provide you with the relevant information to do so. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
11 
PAGE 5: RESEARCH PROPOSAL 
 
Subject Area* 
Please select the Subject Area from the drop down menu that is most relevant 
to this proposal. Please note that assessors are allocated according to the 
Subject selected by you.  
Title of Research Proposal 
Please give the title of your proposed project.  
  
 
Abstract * 
Please provide a short abstract summarising your proposed research in terms 
suitable for an informed general audience, not one specialised in your field. 
This is a mandatory field and the limit is 150 words 
Proposed Programme * 
Please give a detailed description of the research programme, including 
methodology. Applicants should be aware of the importance that assessors 
place on the viability, specificity and originality of the research programme 
and of its achievability within the timescale, which should be specified in the 
Plan of Action. This is a mandatory field and the limit is 1500 words 
Plan of Action * 
Please indicate here a clear timetable for your research programme. 
Try to be as realistic as possible, but keep in mind that research programmes 
will develop over time and this plan of action is not something that is expected 
to account for every minute and is not unchangeable. But your chances of 
award will be affected by the assessors' perception of how viable and realistic 
this plan is. This is a mandatory field and the limit is 800 words 
Planned 
research 
outputs/plans 
for 
publication/dissemination 
* 
Under ‘planned research outputs’, please only state the type of output 
expected (for example monograph(s), journal article(s), book chapter(s) 
report(s), guidance notes, teaching modules/resources, websites and digital 
resources, etc). Please give more detail about potential publishers etc under 
plans for publication/dissemination. This is a mandatory field and there is a limit 
of 300 words for planned research outputs and 500 words for plans for publication 
dissemination 
Digital Resource  
It is a condition of the award that digital resources created as a result of 
research funded by the Academy be deposited in an appropriately accessible 
repository. Applicants should ensure that any necessary technical advice is 
obtained before commencing work that involves the creation of digital 
resources. 
Starting Date / End date * 
To select a date in the future using the calendar feature, click on the month 
and year in between the two arrows at the top of the box. To change the year 
keep clicking on the box – a second click will produce a decade. Use the arrows 
to move back or forward in time. To change the month, a second box will 
appear where you can select the month you wish and then you can type the 
year you require in the box provided. Click on the date and the calendar will 
take you to the month and year you have selected where you can select the 
relevant date for display. 
Please note that awards for Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey must be 
held over a continuous period of 12 months. The start date should not be 
earlier than 01 March 2018 and not later than 31 March 2018. The end date for 
awards should be no later than 31 March 2019. 
Proposed 
Co-Host 
Institution 
Please indicate here your choice of co-host UK institution, including the 
appropriate Faculty, Department, Research Institute or College where you 
propose to work 
Reason of Choice of Co-
Host Institution * 
Please explain the reason for your choice of UK co-host institution (the 
university/research institute, department, Co-Applicant). 
Language Competence * 
Please state your standard of English in reading, writing and speaking. Please 
use the terms bilingual/fluent/good/moderate/basic to describe your level 
of English in reading, writing and speaking. 
Other Participants / Role of 
other participants * 
The application only allows for one Applicant and one Co-Applicant but you 
should use this section to list any other participants such as members of each 
group or network.  
Under ‘Other participants’ please give the names and positions of any other 
participants such as postdocs or PhD students. If detail are not known yet, 
please indicate numbers and status of people who might be involved. Please 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
12 
describe the contribution to the project to be made by other participants and 
what they are expected to bring or gain from the process. 
Ethical Issues * 
It is expected that most ethical issues will be covered by standard codes of 
practice. It is only necessary to indicate here in detail any non-standard issues. 
Please note the Academy’s ethics policy described in its Code of Practice. 
Approval to undertake the research must be granted by the relevant authority 
before any work requiring approval begins. 
Benefits to individuals / 
institutions * 
Describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will 
result from the proposed award for the Applicant, the Co-Applicant, and the 
respective groups/networks and institutions. In particular please comment 
on how the award will benefit the career development of the Applicant and 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities, the added 
value of the collaboration, and any intentions for sustaining the partnership 
in the longer term. Maximum 550 words. 
Benefits 
to 
Overseas 
Country * 
The benefits to the Newton Fund partner country is a critical aspect of the 
Newton Mobility Grants scheme. Describe any potential benefits to the 
Applicant’s home country that will result from the proposed award, 
especially how the research will contribute to advancing economic 
development and social welfare of the country to benefit the wider society. 
Maximum 600 words. 
Benefits to UK * 
Describe any potential secondary benefits to the UK and UK research that will 
result from the proposed award. Maximum 300 words. 
Training Programme * 
Training and career development is a critical aspect of the Newton Mobility 
Grants. The training programme is intended for the benefit of the overseas 
applicant and their research network. Please provide a breakdown of, and 
justification for, the funding requested for this training programme, outlining 
its relevance and suitability. Please also include the following points: a) who 
will deliver and who will receive the training? b) what are the expected 
outcomes? c) what is the structure of the training programme (e.g. courses, 
training modules, specific activities)? 
Maximum 1000 words. 
ODA 
Justification 
Statement  
Please provide an ODA justification statement. You should consider using the 
following questions when preparing this statement: 
 
1. Which country/countries on the DAC list will directly benefit from 
this proposal and are these countries likely to continue to be ODA 
eligible for the duration of the research? 
 
2. How is your proposal directly and primarily relevant to the 
development challenges (Sustainable Development Goals) of these 
countries? 
 
3. How do you expect that the outcome of your proposed activities 
promote the economic development and welfare of a country or 
countries on the DAC list / What are the Pathways to Impact? 
 
 
 
PAGE 6: FINANCIAL DETAILS 
 
Financial Details 
 
 
Applicants should prepare accurate costings for the 
proposed expenses, and should be particularly careful not 
to overestimate the resources required.  
 
Please note that grants are cash-limited, and there is no 
scope for supplementation of an award. Projects should be 
fully costed from the outset. However, requests to carry 
forward underspend from year one will be considered. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
13 
Justification * 
Please give a full justification for all costs. Please ensure 
that justification is broken down by budget category for 
years 1 and 2. 
Applications to Other Funding Bodies 
Please provide details of other support given or applied for 
in connection with the current proposal.  
 
If you do not have any applications submitted with other 
funding bodies please enter “None” in this section 
 
PAGE 7: EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
 
Equal Opportunities  
 
 
This section is optional; however, the Academy would 
greatly appreciate it if you can complete the details to 
assist us in our diversity monitoring.  
 
The British Academy is committed to its policy of Equal 
Opportunity in the provision of its grants and awards.  
Please help us to monitor the effectiveness of this policy 
by providing information concerning your age, gender, 
ethnic origin and disabilities (if any).   
 
This information will be kept separately from the rest of 
your application and will not be seen by those involved 
in making decisions in the selection process. 
 
PAGE 8: LEAD APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT /  PAGE 9: CO-APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT 
 
All applications for Academy grants are considered in the light of Head of Department (HoD) comments. No 
application will be considered without the required number of HoD statements, which must be received by 
the specified deadline. 
 
Please note that this scheme requires two Head of Department statements.  
 
No two references provided under the departmental support tab can be from the same person. If this is the 
case then it may make the application ineligible, and alternative HoD will need to be provided in accordance 
to the guidelines. 
 
Completion of Heads of Department tab:  
• 
To add a Departmental support (HoD) email address click on “Add HoD” link, enter the email 
address and select the “check email” button 
• 
If the HoD’s details appear, it means that they have an existing Flexi-Grant account under the email 
address entered. If so, select “contact now”, adding whatever personal message you wish which will 
be added to the automatic Flexi-Grant message, followed by “save” in order to attach the HoD to the 
application.  
• 
If a form appears prompting you to enter the email address again and other details, it means that 
they do not have an existing Flexi-Grant account. You will therefore need to create an account for 
them. To do this, enter their details and then select “contact now”, followed by “save” in order to 
attach each HoD to the application.  
• 
If you do not select “contact now” the details of the HoD will not be attached to the form. Please note 
that we do strongly advise that all candidates select the “contact now” button when invited to do so. 
This will send a message to your HoD alerting them to the fact that they have been asked to supply 
a reference for you, and explaining the next steps needed to be taken to do so. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: It is vital that you enter the correct email address for your HoDs as upon your application 
being approved by the co-host UK organisation, emails are sent automatically from Flexi-Grant to these 
individuals at the email addresses supplied on the application form with login details, and instructions for 
viewing the application and supplying the reference through Flexi-Grant. It is advisable, before adding a 
HoD, to check whether your chosen HoD, has an account in the Flexi-Grant system, and the email address 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
14 
associated with this, to ensure that you do not create multiple email accounts for an existing user which will 
cause confusion. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: HoD references must be provided through the Flexi-Grant system. They cannot be 
provided as an email attachment nor sent by post in hard copy. Please bear this in mind when selecting a 
HoD for your application and ensure that you nominate a HoD with an active email address and who is 
happy to provide a reference through an online system.  
 
It is the responsibility of the applicants to: 
• 
contact HoDs outside of the Flexi-Grant system to ensure that they have received details of their 
Flexi-Grant login and instructions for supplying their statements through Flexi-Grant. While the 
Flexi-Grant system is programmed to contact HoDs automatically, applicants should not rely solely 
on the electronic system to do so  
• 
ensure that references are supplied through Flexi-Grant by the specified deadline 
• 
keep track of the progress of references by viewing your Application Summary, accessed by clicking 
on the “Contributors” tab; by doing this you can view whether a reference has been completed or is 
still active 
• 
remember that applications without Head of Department statements will not be eligible for 
consideration 
It is advisable that you send your HoDs a copy of Appendix 1 (found at the end of these notes). 
 
Departmental Support * 
The two Heads of Department should be based at the 
principal Applicant’s overseas employing institution and 
the Co-Applicant’s UK employing institution (the UK co-
host institution). 
 
The Heads of Department are asked to endorse the 
application and demonstrate institutional support for the 
project. The statements must be written in English. 
If the Applicant’s Head of Department is also their current 
mentor an alternative person will need to be found to 
supply the Head of Department’s statement is required, 
e.g. Head of School/Faculty. 
 
If the Co-Applicant is also the Head of Department at the 
UK organisation, an alternative referee to supply the Head 
of Department’s statement is required e.g. Deputy Head of 
Department or Head of School. 
 
Both Heads of Department are contacted automatically by 
the Flexi-Grant system with full instructions about how to 
provide their reference in the system. This reference must 
be provided before the application can be submitted and 
approved by the UK co-host organisation. 
 
Please note: Applicants/Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-
term contract finishing before the end-date of the grant 
must secure confirmation through their Head of 
Department Statement that their contract will be extended 
to cover the duration of the award if their application is 
successful. 
 
 
 
THE ACADEMY WILL ONLY PROCESS COMPLETE, SUBMITTED AND APPROVED APPLICATIONS 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
15 
SUBMITTING AN APPLICATION 
 
Once you have submitted your application for approval by the UK co-host organisation (i.e. the organisation 
which employs your UK-based Co-Applicant), automatic emails will be sent to the UK co-host organisation 
approver asking them to log on to the system. You will not be able to edit your application after it has been 
submitted to the UK co-host organisation for approval. The approver will either: approve and submit your 
application, ‘send back’ your application and contact you to request modifications, or decline your application 
and contact you. 
 
If the UK co-host organisation approver requests modifications through the Flexi-Grant email facility, they 
can unlock your application, allowing you to edit it. They can do this by selecting ‘Send Back’. An automatic 
e-mail will be sent to you alerting you of this fact. Once you have completed and saved the requested changes, 
please re-submit your application for approval by your employing organisation. 
 
Once the UK co-host organisation has approved your application and submitted it to the British Academy it 
will not be possible to make any changes. 
 
It is recommended that you check that your application has been approved in time. To see the details of the 
UK co-host organisation approver and to check the status of your application, you should log into Flexi-Grant 
and click on the link to the Application Summary. 
 
Once your application has been submitted and approved, and your references have been received, you will 
not be contacted again by the British Academy until the final award decisions have been made, and you will 
not be required to do anything further in the Flexi-Grant system until that point. You can track the progress 
of your application by monitoring the Lifecycle Stages; to do this click “Manage” in the “My Applications” 
section. Please note that the eligibility stage in the lifecycle stages is an internal process and you do not need 
to do anything for this. PLEASE NOTE: You will receive notification of the outcome of your application by 
email outside the Flexi-Grant system. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
16 
Appendix 1 
 
Guidance for HoD Statement Providers on Flexi-Grant 
 
If you have been detailed as a HoD statement provider by an Applicant for a Newton Mobility Grant, this 
reference should be provided electronically via the British Academy’s Flexi-Grant (electronic Grant 
Application and Processing) system - https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com 
 
Once the Applicant has added you to their application you will be contacted by the system requesting your 
statement of support. HoD statements must be submitted by Wednesday, 20th December 2017, 5pm, (UK 
time). 
 
Obtaining your log in details: 
Your login details will be dependent on the email address that the Applicant provided for you in their 
application. If you have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically been generated for 
you using the email address supplied by the Applicant. If you have forgotten your password, do not know 
your password or are using Flexi-Grant for the first time, click the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter the 
email address supplied by the Applicant in the application (Please contact the Applicant directly if you are 
unsure of the email address provided). An email containing a link to reset your password will be sent to you. 
Click on the link to set/reset your password. (Knowledge of previous passwords is not required.) Please note 
that the email link is time limited and will become inactive after 30 minutes of being requested. Therefore 
please only click on the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link when you are able to complete the process within 30 
minutes. 
 
Please note that your login details can also be used in future for any other tasks and are not just relevant to 
this reference. 
 
Please note: The email address is the unique identifier on Flexi-Grant, so it is important that you always use 
the exact same email address that the Applicant has provided in the application when logging on to Flexi-
Grant. If you are already registered on Flexi-Grant please advise the Applicant to use the appropriate email 
address. 
 
Information required: 
You may be asked specific questions related to the application so please log-on and look at the 
application and the reference/statement of support form before formulating your response. You 
may be asked about the Fellowship Applicant and/or the UK - based Co - applicant. You will not 
be expected to know either or both personally.  
 
Please note: If the Applicant/Co-Applicant for which you will be providing a Head of Department Statement 
currently holds a fixed-term contract that is due to finish before the end-date of the grant, your statement must 
include confirmation that their contract is due to be extended and will therefore cover the duration of the 
award if their application is successful. 
 
Word limits:  
Please note that there will be a size limit imposed on the reference; please check your statement is within the 
limit. The limits refer to words.. We recommend that you first type and save the text in a word processor and 
check the word count before pasting it into Flexi-Grant. If you exceed the specified word count the system will 
not allow you to save and submit your reference.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey) 
 
17 
Using Flexi-Grant: 
The Flexi-Grant system automatically logs you out after periods of inactivity (typing is not considered 
activity). Therefore, we recommend that you save your work frequently or, preferably, write your reference 
in a word processor first and then copy the text into Flexi-Grant, using the following instructions: 
 
1. Go to the Flexi-Grant website: https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com 
2. Enter your email login. If you have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically 
been generated for you using the email address supplied by the Applicant. 
3. Enter your password. If you have forgotten your password, or are using Flexi-Grant for the first time, 
click the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter your email address (the same one as entered by the 
Applicant). An email containing a link to reset your password will be sent to you. Please note that the 
email link is time limited and will become inactive after 30 minutes of being requested. 
4. Click on ’My Applications' 
5. Click on ‘Provide Reference’ (if you would like to view a PDF of the application first, click ‘Print 
Application’, or you may view the application form in its original format by clicking on ‘View 
Application’ on screen at the top of the reference form). 
6. Complete all tabs of the reference/statement of support form and click on ‘Save’ at regular intervals as 
you proceed: 
o 
References/statements must be written in English. If a reference/statement is not submitted 
in English, it will not be accepted and may make the application ineligible. 
Click on ‘Save’ and then ‘Submit’ (If the ‘Submit’ button does not appear, one of the mandatory fields, 
indicated with *, has not been completed. Please check all necessary fields are complete and click ‘Save’ again 
– the ‘Submit’ button should then appear.) When you have successfully submitted your reference/statement, 
you should get an acknowledgement on the screen, in the top left hand corner. 
 
Contacting us: 
If you encounter any other problems with accessing the HoD statement form please contact us using the details 
below. It is helpful if you can provide the name of the Fellowship Applicant or the UK Co-Applicant, or either 
of their email addresses; at least one of these will be given in the reference request email. 
 
Email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7969 5288 
 
