
                                   
                                                    
 
1 
 
 
ERC – CONFAP – CNPq Call 
Research opportunities in Europe for active PhD researchers from Brazil 
 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP and the National Council for Scientific 
and Technological Development (CNPq ) invite researchers from Brazil to pursue research collaborations with 
Principal Investigators already supported through EU-funded European Research Council (ERC) grants. 
. 
2. BACKGROUND: 
The present call for Expression of Interest is launched in the framework of: 
 
The Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National 
Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian 
researchers, signed on the 13th of October 2016, and 
 
The Administrative Arrangement between the Directorate-General for Research and Innovation of 
the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one side, and the Brazilian National  Council for Scientific 
and Technological Development (CNPq), the Brazilian Funding Agency for Studies (FINEP) and 
Projects and the Brazilian National Council of  State Funding Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, 
on the mechanisms to support EU-Brazil cooperation in research and innovation activities, signed on 
the 22nd of May 2018. 
 
3. ELIGIBLE RESEARCHERS: 
Eligible researchers from Brazil are: 
 
Active researchers from Brazil, holding a PhD, who are implementing research activities within 
Brazilian universities, institutes or research centers. 
Additional eligibility criteria may be requested by the supporting Funding Agencies, which shall, in such 
cases, publish specific guidelines.  
 
4. MODALITIES: 
The ERC Executive Agency (ERCEA) has provided a list of ERC-funded principal investigators interested in 
hosting Brazilian Researchers in their research teams, for short or longer periods (up to 12 months). 
ERC-funded projects, which are open to hosting Brazilian researchers, cover a wide range of scientific fields 
and have been selected by the European Commission and the ERC, within the following evaluation panels: 
 
a. Molecular and Structural Biology and Biochemistry  
b. Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics and Systems Biology  
c. Cellular and Developmental Biology  
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
2 
 
d. Physiology, Pathophysiology and Endocrinology  
e. Neurosciences and Neural Disorders  
f. Immunity and Infection  
g. Diagnostic Tools, Therapies and Public Health 
h. Evolutionary, Population and Environmental Biology 
i. 
Applied life Sciences and Non-Medical Biotechnology 
j. 
Mathematics  
k. Fundamental Constituents of Matter 
l. 
Condensed Matter Physics 
m. Physical and Analytical Chemical Sciences 
n. Synthetic Chemistry and Materials  
o. Computer Science and Informatics 
p. Systems and Communication Engineering  
q. Products and Processes Engineering 
r. Universe Sciences  
s. Earth System Science  
t. Markets, Individuals and Institutions 
u. Institutions, Values, Beliefs and Behaviour  
v. Environment, Space and Population  
w. The Human Mind and Its Complexity  
x. Cultures and Cultural Production  
y. The Study of the Human Past  
z. Synergy 
 
4.1 Modalities of implementation: 
 
Expression of Interest of Researchers from Brazil 
I. 
Eligible researchers shall need to access the online portal, available at the link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login and fill in the items listed below.  
a. Name and Surname 
b. CPF 
c. Institution: university, institute or research centre where the main research activities are 
carried out 
d. Brazilian State where the main research activities are carried out 
e. Active grants, projects or  contracts in which the researcher is currently involved 
f. Academic degree 
g. Contacts (email and phone) 
II. 
Following such request, eligible researchers will be able to access, within the same portal, 
information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers, including 
the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and contacts. 
III. 
Researchers from Brazil have to contact the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant of the project 
that is of interest and must reach with him an agreement on the possibility of joining his research 
team, as well as jointly define a Work Plan and related conditions. 
IV. 
Researchers from Brazil have to submit their proposal, in the dedicated portal, following agreements 
taken with the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant and according to the orientations in Item 
no. 6. 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
3 
 
V. 
Assessment of the proposals shall be done by the participating FAPs with the coordination of CONFAP 
and by CNPq. 
VI. 
Results are then communicated to the ERC and to the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant, 
and are subsequently published. 
 
5. FUNDING: 
Scientific exchanges shall start in the second semester of 2018 and can be either performed on a more 
extended timeframe (i.e. lasting 6 to 12 months) or be divided in multiple and shorter visits, i.e. to perform 
joint experimentation or similar research activities. 
Eligible researchers from Brazil will continue to receive their salaries and/or scholarship according to their 
institutional terms and conditions.The Brazilian State Funding Agencies participating in the present call or 
CNPq will provide support for travel expenses.  
Visiting researchers from Brazil which shall be incorporated into the research teams of the ERC-funded 
Principal Investigators (at the Host Institution of the ERC project), for the duration of the visit, may receive 
support from the ERC grant, and such funding shall be negotiated and defined by the ERC funded Principal 
Investigators and the researchers from Brazil. 
The ERC-funded Principal Investigators are expected to establish and decide in advance, with the visiting 
researcher from Brazil, the research conditions, which should offer an enabling environment for the research 
visits and be in line with the applicable national law and any other rules and regulations applicable on the 
Host institution. 
The costs, which can be reimbursed under the ERC grant, must be eligible within the terms of the grant and 
the maximum amount of the ERC grant cannot be increased for this purpose. 
Eligible cost categories include: 
a) subsistence costs on a per diem basis, or any other applicable modality of the Host Institution, in 
accordance with the applicable national law and any other rules or regulations applicable on the Host 
Institution, commensurate to the level of experience of the individual visiting researcher; 
b) any other eligible costs incurred during the visit of the researchers from Brazil that are directly related 
to the ERC-funded project. 
 
6. ORIENTATIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS  
 
After having contacted the ERC Grantees, following orientations detailed in item 4.1, proposals must 
include all the documents listed below: 
1. Curriculum Vitae; 
2. Work Plan, facilities and resources that the ERC-funded Principal Investigator and Host Institution 
shall provide to the visiting researcher from Brazil; 
3. Letter of Acceptance from the University or Research centre of Origin of the researcher from Brazil; 
4. Letter of Acceptance from the ERC-funded Principal Investigator, indicating his consent on 
integrating the researcher from Brazil in his team and on his proposal and Work Plan; 
5. Letter of Acceptance from the Host Institution in Europe, which confirms the availability to receive 
the researcher from Brazil in the terms and timing foreseen in the Work Plan. 
 
 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
4 
 
Researchers from Brazil should, in first instance, contact their respective FAP or CNPq in order to verify 
if specific additional orientations are provided.  
Researchers 
from 
Brazil 
must 
submit 
their 
proposals 
within 
the 
Call’s 
link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login.  
Researchers from the State of São Paulo and from the State of Minas Gerais must send proposals within 
the Call’s link mentioned above and also directly to: 
FAPESP: www.fapesp.br/11794, following the specific guidelines for FAPESP. 
FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/, following the specific guidelines for FAPEMIG. 
 
7. ASSESSMENT: 
Assessment criteria are based on the unique criteria of Scientific Excellence, in coherence and in order to be 
aligned with ERC grants. 
Scientific Excellence shall consider the academic background, quality, publications, technological 
development, participation in public, private, national or international funded projects. 
Scientific excellence shall also consider the Work Plan, which is presented as well as the impact and 
importance of the collaboration for the Brazilian context. 
Originality, innovation and feasibility shall also be assessed in this framework. 
 
8. DEADLINES: 
The interested researchers from Brazil should express their interest in having access information about the 
ERC-funded projects in a timely manner, in order to be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all 
the documents requested in Item no. 6, within the deadline: 31st of August 2018. 
Results shall be published on: 
CONFAP’s webpage: http://www.confap.org.br/ 
CNPq’s webpage: http://www.cnpq.br/ 
 
9. SUPPORTING BRAZILIAN FUNDING AGENCIES: 
According to the funding modalities detailed in Item no. 5, the present call is supported by CNPq and by the 
following Brazilian State Funding Agencies: 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco- FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF  
4. Alagoas - FAPEAL 
5. Amapá - FAPEAP 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
5 
 
6. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
7. Goiás - FAPEG 
8. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
9. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
10. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
11. Piauí - FAPEPI 
12. Rio Grande do Sul - FAPERGS 
13. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
14. Bahia - FAPESB 
15. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
16. São Paulo - FAPESP 
17. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
18. Sergipe - FAPITEC 
19. Tocantins - FAPT 
20. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: 
Contact for assistance and support: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
 More information on ‘ERC teams open to the world':  
https://erc.europa.eu/managing-your-project/set-and-develop-your-team 
 
 
 
