
 
1 
 
 
CONFAP – CNPq - H2020 Green Deal Call 
 
Call for the submission of proposals in the framework of the H2020 Green Deal 
 
1. Objective: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP and the Brazilian National Council 
for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), invite researchers from Brazil to pursue research 
and innovation collaborations within Horizon 2020 Green Deal calls published in September 2020.  
2. Background: 
The present call is launched by CONFAP on the basis of the Administrative Arrangement between the 
Directorate-General for Research and Innovation of the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one 
side, and the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the 
Brazilian Funding Agency for Studies (FINEP) and Projects and the Brazilian National Council of  State 
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, on the mechanisms to support EU-Brazil cooperation 
in research and innovation activities, signed on the 22nd May 2018. 
3. Eligible Proponents: 
 Eligible Institutions: Public or private (non - profit) Higher Education and Research Institutions, 
Scientific Institutions, Technology and Innovation Institutions, based in Brazilian States 
corresponding to the FAPs which participate in the call and entities eligible according to apply 
to CNPq;  
 Eligible Applicants: must be linked to a Research Institution located in Brazilian States 
participating in the call, through their respective FAPs, or be eligible to apply to CNPq; 
 Additional or alternative eligibility institutions and/or applicants and additional/alternative 
criteria are defined individually by each of the FAPs which participate in the call (listed in 
Item 7), or by CNPq, which have to be previously consulted.  
 
  
 
2 
 
4. Scope: 
Horizon 2020 (H2020) is the European Union Research and Innovation programme covering the 
timeframe from 2014 to 2020. Within H2020, the European Commission decided to launch a €1 billion 
call for research and innovation projects that respond to the climate crisis and help to protect the 
unique ecosystems and biodiversity. The Horizon 2020-funded European Green Deal Call will support 
the recovery from the coronavirus crisis by turning green challenges into innovation opportunities. 
The projects funded under this call are expected to deliver results with tangible benefits in ten areas. 
Eight thematic areas reflecting the key work streams of the European Green Deal: 
1. Increasing climate ambition 
2. Clean, affordable and secure energy 
3. Industry for a clean and circular economy 
4. Energy and resource efficient buildings 
5. Sustainable and smart mobility 
6. Farm to fork 
7. Biodiversity and ecosystems 
8. Zero-pollution, toxic-free environments 
And two horizontal areas - strengthening knowledge and empowering citizens, which offer a longer-
term perspective in achieving the transformations set out in the European Green Deal.  
The call includes opportunities for international cooperation. 
Participation to H2020 Green Deal call proposals with co-financing of Brazilian State Funding 
Agencies or from CNPq 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs) participating in the present call, or CNPq, may support the 
participation of Brazilian researchers within collaborative projects presented under H2020, according 
to the modalities defined: 
a) In the present call 
b) In the Horizon 2020 Green Deal Call 
c) By the participating FAPs, or by CNPq, in their corresponding Guidelines, providing further rules 
and orientations. 
  
 
3 
Proponents eligible for funding by the Brazilian State Funding Agencies supporting the present call, or 
by CNPq, will use their normal modes of funding to support the participation in H2020 Green Deal 
calls.  
The participating FAPs and CNPq may provide specific orientations providing instructions to this end.  
Participants from Brazil must follow the rules of the general H2020 Green Deal calls, published on the 
portal of the European Commission, available here and resumed in item no 9. 
Proposals must be submitted in first instance within the European Commission Funding & Tenders 
Portal, through the above-mentioned link.  
In addition, Brazilian Principal Investigators (PIs), must also submit a resumed proposal to their FAP, 
or to CNPq, following the indications of the present call, and in line with the funding modalities of their 
corresponding FAP. 
5. General information for the applicants: 
5.1. 
Proposal preparation and submission 
a. Submissions to FAPs or to CNPq must occur after the general H2020 Green Deal calls closes 
(26 January 2021), as the general project presented by the international consortium must be 
annexed to the resumed project presented to the FAPs or to CNPq. The deadline for the 
submission to the FAPs or to CNPq is the 22 February 2021. 
b. Some FAPs or CNPq may request to be contacted prior to such submission; therefore, 
conditions must be verified directly with the involved FAP, or with CNPq, beforehand. 
c. Each FAP and CNPq can define their own deadline for receiving proposals associated to 
projects submitted within the H2020 Green Deal Calls. 
d. The proposal submitted to the participating FAPs or to CNPq should make clear that the 
Brazilian Principal Investigator (PI) in the respective involved State had a relevant participation 
in the design of the complete research project; i.e. being a leader of work packages and/or 
tasks, or whose participation is fundamental for carrying out specific activities described in 
Proposal. The resulting collaboration must aim to contribute to the scientific, technological 
and socio-economic development of the involved Brazilian State and of the country. 
e. The Brazilian engagement, as described above, must also be clearly stated in the proposal. 
f. Proposals with participation of Brazilian PIs from more than one Brazilian state must be 
submitted independently to the FAPs from all states. 
g. Submission of proposals to FAPs or to CNPq are the sole responsibility of the Brazilian PIs. 
  
 
4 
 
5.2. 
Orientations for Proponents: 
Proposal submitted to the participating FAPs or to CNPq must: 
a) Follow the guidelines indicated by the FAPs or by CNPq for this specific CONFAP-H2020 
Green Deal calls.  
b) Clearly mention that the project is associated to a proposal submitted to H2020 Green 
Deal Calls. 
c) Include the title and acronym of the proposal submitted to H2020 Green Deal call, details 
of the EU Project Coordinator/Manager (Name of the Coordinating institution and Name 
of the Project Manager, as indicated in the proposal, key staff section), his/her's 
Institution's 
Participant 
Identification 
Code 
- 
PIC 
Number, 
Call 
reference 
(Programme/Topic and number of the call). 
d) Include a short section (maximum two pages) demonstrating why the participation of the 
PI from Brazil is relevant for the project and how this collaboration will contribute to the 
scientific and technological development of the involved State/s in Brazil.  
e) It is very important that the reviewers and panel members of the involved Brazilian 
Funding Agencies clearly understand how the collaboration of the co-PI in Brazil is 
scientifically relevant, integrated to the EU proposal, and determinant to the success of 
the whole proposal. It is also essential to clearly demonstrate that the co-PI/s in Brazil 
participated actively in the conception, and in the preparation of the proposal. The PI/s in 
Brazil is/are ultimately responsible for making these elements clear in the proposal 
submitted to the Brazilian Funding Agencies. 
f) The proposal, containing the up-mentioned elements must necessarily annex a full copy 
of the proposal submitted to the H2020 Green Deal call on the European Commission 
Funding & Tenders Portal, including Part A (Details on Project Partners and on the Overall 
Project Budget) and Technical Annex Part B (description of the Project). 
 
6. Proposal evaluation 
 
6.1 The evaluation of the proposal submitted to the involved FAPs or to CNPq will follow 
their respective standard procedures used for analysis and selection of research 
proposals. The content of the proposals submitted for evaluation, so as the Annexes 
indicated in point 5.2.f shall be kept confidential. 
  
 
5 
6.2 The proposal will be funded by the involved FAP/s or by CNPq only if it is also approved 
by H2020. The Award Term of the FAPs (“Termo de Outorga”) will only be available for 
signature upon the submission of the Grant Agreement with which the EU awards the 
grant to the consortium.  
7. Involved FAPs 
The FAPs listed below support the present call according to their respective Guidelines which 
may be informed directly by the FAPs.  
Participating State Funding Agencies: 
1.  Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2.  Federal District - FAPDF 
3.  Amazonas - FAPEAM 
4.  Goiás - FAPEG 
5.  Maranhão - FAPEMA 
6.  Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS 
7.  Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ 
8.  São Paulo - FAPESP 
9.  Pará - FAPESPA 
10.  Tocantins – FAPT 
11.  Ceará - FUNCAP 
12.  Mato Grosso do Sul – FUNDECT 
 
Apart from the FAPs listed above, interested researchers may consult their respective FAP, which 
could be open to support by using other available mechanisms, for example the existing 
published “Guidelines for the preparation of research proposals in collaboration with proposals 
submitted to EU Horizon 2020”1. 
8. Deadlines: 
 For submission of the general proposal to the H2020 Green Deal Calls:26 January 2021. 
 For the submission of proposals to the participating FAPs or to CNPq: 1 March 2021 
 
                                                 
1 1 https://confap.org.br/pt/editais/19/horizonte-2020 
  
 
6 
 
9. More Details on the - Horizon 2020 Green Deal Calls 
Brazilian participants must verify the details of the Horizon 2020 Green Deal calls, resumed 
here below and detailed in the call portal – see details available here. 
More details on the topics covered by the call are available in the following links: 
 
LC-GD-1-1-2020 Preventing and fighting extreme wildfires with the integration and 
demonstration of innovative means. 
 
LC-GD-1-2-2020 Towards Climate-Neutral and Socially Innovative Cities. 
 
LC-GD-1-3-2020 Climate-resilient Innovation Packages for EU region. 
 
LC-GD-2-1-2020 Innovative land-based and offshore renewable energy technologies and their 
integration into the energy system. 
 
LC-GD-2-2-2020 Develop and demonstrate a 100 MW electrolyser upscaling the link between 
renewables and commercial/industrial applications. 
 
LC-GD-2-3-2020 Accelerating the green transition and energy access Partnership with Africa. 
 
LC-GD-3-1-2020 Closing the industrial carbon cycle to combat climate change - Industrial 
feasibility of catalytic routes for sustainable alternatives to fossil resources. 
 
LC-GD-3-2-2020 Demonstration of systemic solutions for the territorial deployment of the 
circular economy. 
 
LC-GD-4-1-2020 Building and renovating in an energy and resource efficient way. 
 
LC-GD-5-1-2020 Green airports and ports as multimodal hubs for sustainable and smart 
mobility. 
 
LC-GD-6-1-2020 Testing and demonstrating systemic innovations in support of the Farm-to-
Fork Strategy. 
 
LC-GD-7-1-2020 Restoring biodiversity and ecosystem services. 
 
LC-GD-8-1-2020 Innovative, systemic zero-pollution solutions to protect health, environment 
and natural resources from persistent and mobile chemicals. 
 
LC-GD-8-2-2020 Fostering regulatory science to address combined exposures to industrial 
chemicals and pharmaceuticals: from science to evidence-based policies.  
 
LC-GD-9-1-2020 European Research Infrastructures capacities and services to address 
European Green Deal challenges.  
 
LC-GD-9-2-2020 Developing end-user products and services for all stakeholders and citizens 
supporting climate adaptation and mitigation. 
 
LC-GD-9-3-2020 Transparent & Accessible Seas and Oceans: Towards a Digital Twin of the 
Ocean. 
 
LC-GD-10-1-2020 European capacities for citizen deliberation and participation for the Green 
Deal. 
 
LC-GD-10-2-2020 Behavioral, social and cultural change for the Green Deal. 
  
 
7 
 
LC-GD-10-3-2020 Enabling citizens to act on climate change, for sustainable development and 
environmental protection through education, citizen science, observation initiatives, and civic 
engagement. 
10. Contacts for the call: 
Information about the call in its general features can be obtained by sending a consultation to: 
elisa.confap@gmail.com. 
Specific clarifications regarding eligibility issues and additional rules for participation and 
submission must be directed to the respective FAPs or to CNPq, as CONFAP cannot orient on 
such aspects. 
 
