
 
 
CONFAP – THE UK ACADEMIES 
Fellowship and Research Mobility 
 
The first round opens on September 10th 2014 for applications and will close on 
October 22nd 2014 at 12 AM Brasília Time. 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council 
(CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal for activities of fellowship and 
research mobility directed to researchers based in UK Universities and 
Research Institutions to research activities in Brazil. These activities are under 
the auspice of the Newton Fund.  
The Newton Fund is a new initiative that aims to develop the long-term 
sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research, 
innovation capacities, and is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance 
commitment. 
These awards of up to three years of support offer an opportunity for the UK 
researcher to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups 
through training, collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the 
best research groups in the Brazil. 
 
For further information please contact aci@fapemig.br, duvidasfundonewton-
faperj2014@faperj.br (directed only to researchers from the State of Rio de 
Janeiro) or chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br (directed only to researchers 
from the State of São Paulo).  
 
 
  
 
How to apply 
Applications are available at: http://confap.org.br/. After the completion of the 
application 
form, 
the 
eligible 
researcher 
must 
send 
it 
to 
fundonewton@confap.org.br. For submission to the State of Rio de Janeiro 
apply to fundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br and for the State of São Paulo: 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br 
About the scheme 
ELIGIBILITY 
 The applicants must hold a PhD degree: 
Young researchers are considered to hold a PhD degree from 2 years to 
7 years. 
Senior researchers must hold a PhD degree for over 7 years. 
 The applicants must have a Brazilian-based collaborator as their co-
applicant.  
 The applicants must hold a permanent academic post or postdoctoral 
fellowship/position which extends beyond the period of the grant in UK. 
 UK researchers from the natural sciences including engineering, medical 
sciences (including clinical or patient-oriented research), social sciences 
and humanities fields are eligible to apply for support. 
 The eligibility criteria for FAPESP support are: 
In case of Fellowship: the UK researcher must be associated to a 
FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in charge of an ongoing grant of the following 
types: Thematic, Young Investigator, or Research, Innovation, and 
Diffusion of Knowledge Centers. 
In case of Research Mobility: it comprises the FAPESP Visiting 
Researcher Grant which requires a host researcher (co-applicant) in the 
State of São Paulo. 
  
 
 
TYPES OF GRANT 
Concerning the Fellowship activity, there are two categories for the UK 
researcher: 
 
A. For Young Researchers: 
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 7,000.00 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher 
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months 
 
B. For Senior Researchers: 
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 10,000.00 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher 
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months 
 
In case the UK researcher chooses to be based in Brazil in a University or 
Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:  
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 
13,653.60 (the level is to be suggested by the host investigator and 
confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review).  
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher. 
 Grant to the PI in charge of which the visitor will be associated to may 
request to FAPESP supplementary funds of up to R$ 25,000.00 for every 
six months of stay of the visitor. These funds are to be used for research 
related consumable materials, services, and travel.  
 
 
  
 
 
Concerning the Research Mobility activity, UK researcher can apply for two 
types: 
A. Mission up to fifteen days: 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance. 
 Daily support defined by the State Funding Agencies (FAPs) 
 
B. Mission from sixteen days to three months: 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance. 
 A monthly scholarship in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly. 
 
In case the UK researcher chooses to be based in Brazil in a University or 
Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:  
A. Mission up one month: 
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of value. 
 
B. Mission from one month to three months: 
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 A monthly scholarship from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 13,653.60 (the value of 
the scholarship should be suggested by the host investigator and 
confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review). 
 
SELECTION CRITERIA 
All applications will be assessed by a Selection panel on the following criteria: 
 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
 
The track record of the Applicant and the overseas host organisation in 
the area of proposed research. 
 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
  
 
 
The track record and suitability of the Brazilian-based Co-applicant and 
Brazilian host organisation in the area of proposed research. 
 
The additional benefits for the Brazilian based Co-applicant and host 
organisation. 
 
Evidence that the Fellowship will lead to a long-term collaboration 
beyond the tenure of the award. 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
  
FAPERGS – O futuro se faz com pesquisa.    Av. Borges de Medeiros, 261 - 2º andar | Centro - Porto Alegre/RS | CEP 90.020-021 
                                     Fone (51) 3221 4922 | www.fapergs.rs.gov.br  
 
RESULTADO FINAL 
Chamada Pública – UK Researchers/Fundo Newton: chamada para pesquisadores do 
Reino Unido 
PESQUISADOR 
TITULO DO PROJETO 
INSTITUIÇÃO 
1 
Ingrid Oliveira de Nunes 
Incentivising individual agents to promote 
collective behaviour 
UFRGS 
 
Porto Alegre, 13 de fevereiro de 2015. 
 
 
 
 
 
