02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
1 
Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health in Brazil 
 
 
1. Preamble 
This joint call for proposals targeted specifically to Brazilian researchers is the result 
of a partnership between the Ministry of Health (MoH), the National Council for 
Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the National Council for State 
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), engaged State Funding Agency (FAPs) and The Bill & 
Melinda Gates Foundation (BMGF). This call is part of another initiative funded by 
the Gates Foundation in 2010 named Healthy Birth, Growth and Development 
Knowledge integration (HBGDki). The goal of this program is to use data science 
tools to develop a deep understanding of the risk factors contributing to poor 
outcomes in preterm birth, physical growth faltering and impaired neurocognitive 
development. Through Grand Challenges Explorations - Brazil, the above-
mentioned partners share this goal and wish to build on the growing expertise in 
data science, epidemiology and public health in Brazil to address priority issues in 
maternal and child health. 
 
2. THE CHALLENGE 
There remain key knowledge gaps in understanding how nutrition, prenatal and 
antenatal care, maternal support, and environmental and social factors contribute 
to an elevated risk of poor maternal and childhood health outcomes.  Such an 
understanding is required to determine what interventions, including health 
policies, should be delivered to which group of individuals at what point in their 
lifecycle to ensure optimal outcomes.  
 
3. THE OPPORTUNITY 
Developing and validating approaches to foster maternal and child health is 
challenging due to the complex interaction of biological, environmental and social 
factors. Furthermore, policy recommendations for such approaches frequently lack 
sufficient supporting scientific evidence, while clinical trials are expensive, time-
consuming, and increasingly difficult to implement. There is now a key opportunity 
to accelerate research in this area by analyzing administrative and clinical 
outcomes databases in Brazil to formulate public health recommendations that are 
data-driven and cost effective.  
 
The purpose of this call for proposals is to promote new and novel approaches to 
analyzing data related to social programs and public health in Brazil to produce 
 02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
2 
novel insights which can be used to improve maternal and child health in Brazil 
and around the world. Applicants may choose to work with large datasets 
available to them or to collaborate with Center for Data and Knowledge 
Integration for Health (CIDACS) to explore their linked anonymized dataset (100 
million Brazilian Cohort), which integrates information from the Cadastro Unico 
(CADU) with the live births system (SINASC), the mortality system (SIM) and Bolsa 
Família program (BFP) - see Appendix A for more information about data access 
through CIDACS.  
 
Successful applicants to this call should assume that with the appropriate 
agreements and ethical approvals, they will not only receive funding but will be 
able to access anonymized subsets of these data available from Center for Data 
and Knowledge Integration for Health (CIDACS) researchers.   The utilization of the 
health and social data, as a key focus of this call, is intended to engage a broad 
spectrum of collaborators - including research and clinical scientists working with 
data scientists, bioinformaticians, statisticians, epidemiologists, engineers and 
computer programmers - to identify how innovative data analytic approaches can 
be used to develop improved solutions to tackle the burden of maternal and child 
health problems in Brazil.   
 
We also welcome applicants who have access to other relevant data sets, including 
publicly available data, clinical research, cohort and survey studies and other large 
datasets that can help address the questions below, to submit their proposals 
under this call. In this case, researchers who submit applications involving other 
data sets are responsible for securing appropriate authorization and access to the 
data. Applicants are encouraged to describe the steps required to access the 
proposed dataset in their proposals.  
 
3.1. WHAT WE ARE LOOKING FOR 
We seek proposals designed to answer critical scientific questions related to 
maternal and child health and development outcomes. Proposals should use 
innovative data analytics and modeling approaches that can be applied to the 
CIDACS linked datasets or to other relevant data sets that applicants can access. 
Proposals should be based on these linked datasets or existing primary data in 
Brazil and yield actionable results with a potential to significantly impact public 
health policy.  
 
3.1.1 We will give highest priority to proposals that:  
 02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
3 
a) Support innovative collaborations between Brazilian research scientists, 
healthcare experts, and data scientists;  
b) Answer critical scientific questions identified in this GCE, while building 
and strengthening data science capacity for Brazil;  
c) Take into account social, environmental and cultural determinants of 
outcomes and incorporate an understanding of the target community 
that includes barriers and constraints to delivery of interventions and to 
implementation of public health programs;  
d) Contribute to a portfolio of funded projects that addresses regional 
diversity and the need to provide health equity for diverse and vulnerable 
populations;  
e) Explain how answers will have the highest likelihood of being relevant for 
implementation broadly in the public health system; 
f)    Describe mechanistic models for establishing the relationship between 
interventions and its related outcomes.  
 
3.1.2. Examples of what we are looking for include analytical approaches: 
a) That apply innovative analyses or machine learning techniques to identify 
patterns in data from “natural experiments” (e.g., the impact of economic 
cycles on the quality of primary care and health outcomes); 
b) That stratify risk of adverse pregnancy outcomes, including preterm birth 
and low birth weight; 
c) That incorporate weight gain during pregnancy as a variable, including 
helping to determine the relative contributions to neonatal health outcomes 
of maternal diet quantity versus quality; 
d) That determine the relative contributions to infant health outcomes of diet 
quantity versus quality (e.g., protein quantity versus quality); 
e) That target underexplored subsets of data (e.g., rare but significant HBGD 
events that can be studied because of the large size and statistical power of 
the database); 
f) That help convert correlations to causal hypotheses (e.g., health outcomes 
correlated to sex differences, maternal education, birth spacing, age of first 
pregnancy, establishing causal impact of air pollution on fetal growth); 
g) That identify new ways to aggregate risk factors and identify vulnerable 
populations for adverse maternal and child health outcomes, including 
innovative data integration strategies and visualization tools; 
 02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
4 
h) That specifically incorporate the roles of women – as perceived locally – 
from 
adolescence 
to 
motherhood 
(including 
pregnancy 
during 
adolescence); 
i) That evaluate programs for pre-pregnancy intervention for women and the 
effect of doing so on prenatal, maternal, fetal and neonatal mortality; 
j) That determine the best care for low-birth-weight babies;   
k) That help determine the window of opportunity to foster catch-up growth 
for preterm and low-birth-weight babies, and the most effective 
interventions for doing so; 
l) That help identify critical periods for intervention during pregnancy and 
early childhood; 
m) That stratify risk of stunting and wasting from birth through two years of 
age; 
n) That target root causes of maternal mortality, including caesarean section, 
and address the most vulnerable population groups considering age and 
ethnicity; 
o) That investigate the “double burden” of disease in Brazil leading to pockets 
of stunting and wasting in parallel with pockets with rising rates of 
childhood obesity. 
p) That stratify risks for child development aiming to establish national 
indicators for healthy development from the neonatal period to the first two 
years of the children addressing preferably most vulnerable population 
groups considering age and ethnicity  
q) That help to understand the relationship between social indicators, 
nutritional conditions and mortality from the prenatal period to the early 
childhood. We welcome applications addressing traditional and vulnerable 
populations. 
 
3.1.3. Examples of what we are NOT looking for: 
a) Proposals submitted by applicants from outside of Brazil. 
b) Proposals for new studies to generate new data; 
c) Proposals that do not focus on health outcomes in Brazil; 
d) Proposals not related to maternal and child health challenges 
e) Development of new primary data collection tools; 
f) Approaches that do not meaningfully involve data from adolescents, 
mothers, or infants; 
 02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
5 
g) Applications proposing data science algorithm development without clear 
relevance to answering the types of questions described in this call for 
proposals; 
h) Ideas without a clearly articulated and testable hypothesis together with 
metrics of success; 
i) Ideas for which the described indicator of success cannot be demonstrated 
or significantly advanced within the scope of the GCE Phase 1 award (USD 
$100,000 over 18 months); 
j) Proposals that do not describe the innovation’s potential effects on health 
policy making; 
k) Analyses that are only slight improvements over existing approaches (e.g., 
replication of an approach in a new geography in the absence of added 
innovation); 
 
APPENDIX  
Center for Data and Knowledge Integration for Health 
The Center for Data and Knowledge Integration for Health (CIDACS) was 
launched in 2016 as part of Fiocruz in Bahia to conduct innovative scientific 
research that broadens understanding of the effects of social and environmental 
determinants, including public policy, on population health in Brazil. To achieve 
this goal, it links information from social programs and other databases of health 
information systems, such as mortality, birth, communicable and non-
communicable infectious diseases, among other outcomes, from different 
information systems maintained by the Ministry of Health. A central feature of the 
CIDACS platform is to produce linked datasets, whose main product is the 100 
million Brazilians cohort (2006-2015).  This cohort is built by linking data from 
individuals in the Cadastro Único (CADU) to data of the same individuals in the 
Bolsa Familia Program (BFP), SINASC and SIM. CADU is a national registry of 
individuals who could be eligible to federal government social programs. BFP is a 
national conditional cash transfer program which transfers cash to poor 
households when they comply with conditions related to health and education. 
Individuals in the BFP database must be registered in CADU. SINASC is the 
registry of birth certificates. SIM is the registry of death certificates. 
 
Previous analyses performed by the CIDACS team have demonstrated that the 
social protection program contributed to a decrease in childhood mortality 
overall and in particular for deaths attributable to poverty-related causes such as 
malnutrition and diarrhea. 
 02 March 2018: GCE-BRAZIL CALL FOR PROPOSALS IN ENGLISH 
 
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
6 
 
The CIDACS platform employs the highest levels of security to ensure the privacy, 
integrity, and ethical use of the data. Considerable research has been required to 
develop the processes for data receipt, curation, and to provide authorized 
access for analysis. In this Grand Challenges Explorations – Brazil program, the 
CIDACS platform will be available for the selected applicants to conduct 
innovative, interdisciplinary projects in the areas of maternal and child health.  
 
Additional Resources 
HBGDKI.org 
Center for Data and Knowledge Integration for Health (CIDACS) 
Other resources to follow in the coming days  
 
               
 
 
Grand Challenges Explorations – Brasil 
Ciência de Dados Para Melhorar a Saúde Materno-Infantil no Brasil 
1. INTRODUÇÃO 
Esta chamada conjunta do Grand Challenges Explorations, voltada exclusivamente e pela 
primeira vez a pesquisadores brasileiros, é resultado da parceria entre o Ministério da 
Saúde (MS), o Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq), 
o Conselho Nacional das Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP), as 
Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (FAPs) e a Fundação Bill & Melinda Gates 
(FBMG). Esta chamada é parte da iniciativa criada pela Fundação Gates em 2010 e 
denominada 
Integração 
do 
Conhecimento 
em 
Nascimento, 
Crescimento 
e 
Desenvolvimento Saudáveis (da sigla em inglês HBGDki). O principal objetivo deste 
programa é utilizar ferramentas de ciência de dados para desenvolver um sólido 
entendimento dos fatores de risco que contribuem para desfechos inadequados em 
partos prematuros, crescimento infantil incerto e desenvolvimento neurocognitivo 
comprometido. Por meio do Grand Challenges Explorations Brasil, os parceiros citados 
acima compartilham do objetivo de apostar e investir na crescente experiência do Brasil 
em ciência de dados, epidemiologia e em saúde pública para enfrentar os principais 
problemas em saúde materno-infantil de nosso tempo. 
 
2. O DESAFIO 
Ainda existem importantes lacunas de conhecimento para entender como a nutrição, os 
cuidados durante o pré-natal e no pós-parto, além de fatores ambientais e sociais, 
contribuem para um elevado risco de resultados insatisfatórios para a saúde materno-
infantil. Essa compreensão é necessária para determinar quais intervenções, incluindo 
políticas públicas de saúde, devem ser oferecidas, a quais grupos de indivíduos e em 
que momento de suas vidas para garantir os melhores resultados. 
 
 
3. A OPORTUNIDADE 
Desenvolver e validar abordagens para promover a saúde materno-infantil é uma tarefa 
desafiadora porque depende de uma complexa interação entre fatores biológicos, 
ambientais e sociais. Além disso, recomendações de políticas públicas para garantir 
bons resultados nesta área frequentemente carecem do suporte de evidências 
científicas porque os testes clínicos, em geral, são caros, levam tempo e são cada vez 
mais difíceis de implementar. Essa chamada representa uma oportunidade única de 
acelerar a pesquisa nesta área por meio da análise de bases de dados brasileiras 
               
 
 
contendo informações clínicas e administrativas para formular recomendações em 
políticas públicas guiadas por evidências e com o melhor custo-benefício. 
 
O objetivo desta chamada é fomentar abordagens inovadoras de análise de dados 
relacionados a programas sociais e à saúde pública no Brasil para produzir novos 
insights e conclusões que podem melhorar a saúde materno-infantil não só dentro do 
país como também ao redor do mundo. Os candidatos podem escolher entre trabalhar 
com grandes bancos de dados já disponíveis ou colaborar com o Centro de Integração 
de Dados e Conhecimentos para Saúde (CIDACS). Ao optarem por trabalhar com o 
CIDACS, poderão explorar uma base com dados anônimos de uma coorte de 100 
milhões de brasileiros, que integra informações do Cadastro Único (CADU) com as do 
Sistema de Informação sobre Nascidos Vivos (SINASC), do Sistema de Informação sobre 
Mortalidade (SIM) e do Programa Bolsa Família (veja o Apêndice abaixo para mais 
informações sobre o acesso aos dados pelo CIDACS). 
 
Candidato(a)s bem-sucedido(a)s nesta chamada concordam que, com os devidos 
acordos e aprovações éticas, não apenas receberão financiamento, mas também 
poderão acessar subconjuntos da coorte de 100 milhões de brasileiros no Centro de 
Pesquisa de Dados e de Conhecimento para a Saúde (CIDACS). A utilização de dados 
sociais e de saúde, principal foco desta chamada, tem como propósito engajar um 
amplo espectro de colaboradores – incluindo pesquisadores da área médica 
trabalhando com cientistas de dados, especialistas em bioinformática, bioestatísticos, 
estatísticos, epidemiologistas, programadores e engenheiros de computação – na 
identificação e uso de abordagens inovadoras de análises de dados para desenvolver 
melhores soluções capazes de enfrentar os problemas de saúde materno-infantil no 
Brasil.  
Propostas de candidatos que tenham acesso a outras bases de dados relevantes para 
esta chamada também são bem-vindas, incluindo dados disponíveis publicamente, de 
pesquisa clínica, de coortes, de inquéritos e outros grandes bancos de dados que 
ajudem a esclarecer as questões listadas abaixo. Pesquisadores que submeterem 
propostas envolvendo outros conjuntos de dados são responsáveis por garantir a 
devida autorização e acesso a essas informações. Neste caso, pedimos que expliquem 
em suas propostas os passos e procedimentos necessários para obter acesso a estes 
dados. 
 
3.1. O QUE ESTAMOS PROCURANDO 
Buscamos propostas desenvolvidas especificamente para responder questões científicas 
críticas relacionados aos desfechos em desenvolvimento e em saúde materno-infantil. 
Os projetos devem utilizar abordagens inovadoras de análise de dados e modelagens 
               
 
 
que possam ser aplicadas aos bancos de dados vinculados no CIDACS ou a outras bases 
de dados às quais o candidato tenha acesso. As propostas devem ser baseadas nesses 
conjuntos de dados vinculados ou em dados primários já existentes no Brasil para 
produzir resultados práticos com potencial para implementação e para impactar 
significativamente as políticas de saúde pública. 
 
3.1.1. Daremos prioridade máxima para projetos que:  
a) Apoiem colaborações inovadoras entre pesquisadores, especialistas em saúde e 
cientistas de dados brasileiros; 
b) Respondam questões científicas críticas identificadas nesta chamada do GCE ao 
mesmo tempo em que desenvolvem e fortalecem a capacidade da ciência de 
dados no Brasil; 
c) Levem em consideração determinantes sociais, ambientais e culturais dos 
resultados e incorporem uma ampla compreensão da comunidade estudada 
que inclua um mapeamento de barreiras e restrições para oferecer 
intervenções e implementar programas de saúde pública; 
d) Contribua para um portfólio de projetos financiados que abordem diversidades 
regionais e a necessidade de oferecer equidade em saúde para populações 
diversas e vulneráveis;  
e) Expliquem como os resultados encontrados terão a maior probabilidade de se 
tornarem relevantes para uma ampla implementação no sistema público de 
saúde; 
f)   Descrevam modelos mecanicistas para estabelecer as relações entre as 
intervenções e seus resultados; 
 
3.1.2. Exemplos do que procuramos incluem abordagens analíticas que:  
a) Apliquem análises inovadoras e técnicas de machine learning para identificar 
padrões nos dados de experimentos naturais (ex: o impacto dos ciclos 
econômicos na qualidade da atenção primária); 
b) Estratifiquem o risco de resultados adversos da gravidez, incluindo parto 
prematuro e baixo peso ao nascer; 
c) Incorporem o ganho de peso durante a gravidez como uma variável e que 
ajudem a determinar a contribuição relativa de uma dieta materna baseada em 
quantidade em comparação com outra baseada em qualidade para os desfechos 
de saúde neonatal;  
d) Determinem as contribuições relativas de uma dieta materna baseada em 
quantidade em comparação com outra baseada em qualidade (ex: quantidade de 
proteína versus qualidade) para os impactos na saúde de crianças;  
               
 
 
e) Foquem em subconjuntos de dados ainda não explorados (ex: eventos raros, mas 
significativos no tema “nascimento, crescimento e desenvolvimento saudáveis” 
que só podem ser estudados graças ao tamanho da base de dados e seu poder 
estatístico); 
f) Ajudem a transformar correlações em hipóteses causais (ex: impactos na saúde 
ligados a diferenças de gênero, à educação da mãe, ao intervalo ou espaçamento 
entre nascimentos, à idade da primeira gravidez, e tentando estabelecer impactos 
causais entre a poluição do ar e o crescimento fetal);  
g) Identifiquem novas formas de agregar fatores de risco e identificar populações 
vulneráveis para desfechos adversos em saúde materno-infantil, incluindo 
estratégias inovadoras de integração de dados e ferramentas de visualização; 
h) Incorporem especificamente os papéis da mulher – como eles são percebidos 
localmente – desde a adolescência até a maternidade (incluindo gravidez durante 
a adolescência); 
i) Avaliem programas e intervenções em preparação para a gravidez e os efeitos 
dessas medidas no pré-natal e na mortalidade materna, fetal e neonatal; 
j) Determinem o melhor cuidado e tratamento para bebês de baixo peso; 
k) Ajudem a determinar o melhor período e oportunidade para promover o 
crescimento mais acelerado de bebês prematuros e de baixo peso e as 
intervenções mais eficazes para implementar essas medidas; 
l) Ajudem a identificar períodos críticos para intervenção durante a gravidez e a 
primeira infância; 
m) Estratifiquem riscos para atrasos de crescimento, incluindo déficit de altura e de 
peso, desde o nascimento da criança até os dois anos de idade; 
n) Foquem nas causas raízes da mortalidade materna, incluindo cesáreas, com 
especial atenção para as populações e grupos mais vulneráveis considerando 
idade e etnia;  
o) Investiguem a dupla carga de doenças que leva o Brasil a ter bolsões de pobreza 
com casos de atraso no crescimento, como déficit de altura e de peso, e, em 
paralelo, taxas crescentes de obesidade infantil; 
p) Estratifiquem riscos para o desenvolvimento infantil com o objetivo de 
estabelecer indicadores nacionais para um desenvolvimento saudável desde o 
período neonatal até os primeiros dois anos de vida voltados preferencialmente 
para as populações e grupos mais vulneráveis considerando idade e etnia; 
q) Ajudem a entender a relação entre indicadores sociais, condições nutricionais e 
mortalidade desde o período pré-natal até a primeira infância. Propostas voltadas 
para as populações tradicionais e vulneráveis também são bem-vindas; 
 
 
               
 
 
3.1.3. Exemplos do que NÃO estamos procurando: 
a) Propostas submetidas por candidatos de fora do Brasil; 
b) Propostas de novos estudos para gerar dados novos; 
c) Propostas que não se foquem em resultados e desfechos de saúde no Brasil; 
d) Propostas não relacionadas aos desafios de saúde materno-infantil; 
e) Desenvolvimento de ferramentas para coleta de novos dados primários;  
f) Abordagens que não envolvam significativamente dados de adolescentes, mães e 
crianças; 
g) Projetos propondo o desenvolvimento de um algoritmo científico de dados sem 
clara relevância para responder as questões descritas nesta chamada; 
h) Ideias sem uma hipótese claramente articulada e testada por métricas de 
sucesso; 
i) Ideias nas quais o indicador de sucesso descrito não pode ser demonstrado ou 
significativamente desenvolvido dentro do escopo do financiamento da Fase 1 
do GCE (100.000 dólares ao longo de 18 meses); 
j) Propostas que não descrevam os possíveis impactos da inovação na formulação 
de políticas de saúde; 
k) Análises que sejam apenas pequenas melhorias de abordagens já existentes (ex: 
replicação de uma abordagem em uma nova geografia na falta de uma inovação 
adicional). 
 
 
APÊNDICE 
Centro de Integração de Dados e Conhecimentos para Saúde (CIDACS)  
O Centro de Integração de Dados e Conhecimentos para Saúde (CIDACS) foi 
inaugurado em 2016 como parte da Fiocruz-Bahia para conduzir pesquisa científica 
inovadora que amplie a compreensão sobre os efeitos dos determinantes sociais e 
ambientais, incluindo políticas públicas, na saúde da população brasileira. Uma 
característica central da plataforma CIDACS é produzir conjuntos de dados vinculados 
cujo principal produto é a coorte de 100 milhões de brasileiros (2006-2015). Esta coorte 
foi criada por meio da vinculação de dados de indivíduos registrados no Cadastro Único 
(CADU) com os dados dos mesmos indivíduos nas bases do Programa Bolsa Família 
(PBF), Sistema de Informação sobre Nascidos Vivos (SINASC) e do Sistema de 
Informação sobre Mortalidade (SIM). O CADU é um registro nacional de pessoas 
elegíveis para receber benefícios de programas sociais do governo federal. PBF é um 
programa nacional de transferência de renda condicional que transfere dinheiro a 
famílias pobres mediante o cumprimento de algumas condições relacionadas à saúde e 
               
 
 
à educação (para uma análise aprofundada sobre os efeitos do programa na 
mortalidade infantil, por favor reveja Rasella, et al. 2013)1. Indivíduos que estão no 
banco de dados do PBF precisam estar registrados também no CADU. SINASC é o 
registro de certificados de nascimento. E o SIM é o registro de certificados de óbitos. 
 
Análises realizadas previamente pela equipe do CIDACS demonstraram que programas 
de proteção social contribuem para a diminuição da mortalidade infantil de maneira 
geral e, particularmente, para a redução de mortes atribuídas a causas relacionadas à 
pobreza, como má nutrição e diarreia. 
 
A plataforma CIDACS emprega os mais altos níveis de segurança para garantir a 
privacidade, integridade e o uso ético dos dados. Pesquisas consideráveis foram 
necessárias para desenvolver o processo de inserção de dados, curadoria, e para 
fornecer acesso autorizado para análises. Neste programa Grand Challenges – Brasil, os 
dados 
do 
CIDACS 
estarão 
disponíveis 
para 
os 
pesquisadores 
selecionados 
desenvolverem seus projetos inovadores e interdisciplinares nas áreas de saúde 
materno-infantil.  
 
Informações adicionais 
HBGDki (site do programa Integração do Conhecimento em Nascimento, Crescimento e 
Desenvolvimento Saudáveis da Fundação Gates) 
Centro de Integração de Dados e Conhecimentos para Saúde (CIDACS) 
Coorte de 100 milhões de brasileiros 
 
                                                 
1 Rasella, D. et al. (2013) Effect of a conditional cash transfer programme on childhood mortality: a nationwide 
analysis of Brazilian municipalities. The Lancet. 382:57 
  
      
    
   
 
 
 
 
Grand Challenges Explorations – Brasil 
 
Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health 
in Brazil 
 
The National Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) informs that the 
State Funding Agencies (FAPs) listed below have agreed to take part in the Data 
Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health in Brazil call for 
proposal: 
 
 
1. State Funding Agency of Amazonas (FAPEAM); 
2. State Funding Agency of Bahia (FAPESB); 
3. State Funding Agency of Ceará (FUNCAP); 
4. State Funding Agency of Distrito Federal (FAPDF); 
5. State Funding Agency of Espírito Santo (FAPES); 
6. State Funding Agency of Goiás (FAPEG); 
7. State Funding Agency of Maranhão (FAPEMA); 
8. State Funding Agency of Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG); 
9. State Funding Agency of Paraná (FUNDAÇÃO ARAUCÁRIA); 
10. State Funding Agency of Pernambuco (FACEPE)i; 
11. State Funding Agency of Rio Grande do Norte  (FAPERN); 
12. State Funding Agency of Rio Grande do Sul (FAPERGS); 
13. State Funding Agency of Santa Catarina (FAPESC); 
14. State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP); 
15. State Funding Agency of Sergipe (FAPITEC);and,  
16. State Funding Agency of Tocantins (FAPT). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brasília, March 15th , 2018.   
                                                 
i The researchers from the State of Pernambuco must submit the same proposal on the FACEPE platform 
(https://agil.facepe.br/) 
 1 
 
Grand Challenges Explorations - Brazil: 
Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health in Brazil 
 
Rules & Guidelines 
Proposals due by Wednesday, May 2, 2018 11:30 a.m. U.S. Pacific Daylight Time 
 
I. 
Overview 
 
Launched in 2012, Grand Challenges Brazil (GC Brazil) is a partnership framework for the Ministry of Health of 
Brazil, its National Council on Research (CNPq), and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (the “foundation”) to 
launch joint challenges aimed at catalyzing innovative health research within Brazil. The Brazilian National 
Council for the State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) is also a partner in this initiative. Here, we announce a new 
program under the Grand Challenges Brazil initiative: Grand Challenges Explorations – Brazil (“GCE-Brazil”).  
GCE grants are designed to support early-stage projects – including ideas that have never before been tested – 
and innovators from a wide range of disciplines. The first grant under the GCE-Brazil program is titled GCE-
Brazil: Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child Health in Brazil. Solutions developed through 
this program could have broad impact both within Brazil and beyond its borders. 
 
Key features of this new GCE-Brazil program are: 
 
• 
Only Brazilian applicants working for Brazilian institutions are eligible for this funding opportunity. 
• 
A four-page application; two pages in English and two duplicate pages in Portuguese. 
• 
Rapid turnaround time. We select projects within approximately five months of the proposal 
submission. 
• 
Champion-based review process. Reviewers with a track record in identifying innovative ideas 
select the proposals they find most pioneering without need for consensus. 
• 
Awards of up to $100,000 USD will be made. 
• 
The  awards will be co-funded by the partners: the Bill & Melinda Gates foundation and the 
Ministry of Health/CNPq. 
• 
Granted projects will be eligible to apply for additional funding provided by participating 
Research Foundation (FAPs).  
 
Tips for Applicants 
 
 
Your proposal must demonstrate an innovative approach that complies with all restrictions and guidelines. 
 
In addition to subject matter experts, your proposal will be reviewed by a panel with broad expertise and a track 
record in identifying innovations – these reviewers may not be deep domain experts in your field. You must 
describe your idea in clear language without the use of jargon unique to your field. 
 
The work proposed in your application must include a clear set of key experiments or activities that test your idea 
in a way that could provide sufficient evidence to warrant funding. Proposals with vague descriptions or vague 
testing methodologies will not be funded. 
 2 
 
II. 
Application Instructions 
 
Schedule 
 
Key dates and deadlines 
 
Key Dates 
Event 
March 5, 2018 
Application period opens 
Wednesday, May 2, 2018, 11:30 a.m. US 
Pacific Daylight Time 
Application deadline 
July 2018 
Proposal review completed 
September 2018 
Selections completed and notifications sent 
 
How to Apply 
 
Changes to the Rules and Guidelines will be posted on the Grand Challenges website (gcgh.grandchallenges.org), 
including any changes to the dates listed above. 
 
Subject to the foundation’s Website Terms of Use and Privacy and Information Policy, the foundation may share 
information you provide to us (either orally or in writing) with third parties, including external reviewers, key partners 
and co-funders. 
 
Application Format 
 
We encourage you to use the provided application form, which can be downloaded after clicking “Apply Now” on 
each application page and can also be found in the Supporting Materials section on the Challenge page. You are 
required to submit either a Microsoft Word® or PDF document; no more than two pages in length. Please do not 
include a cover sheet with your proposal. A cover sheet will be automatically generated from your registration 
data. 
 
Proposals must be submitted prior to the submission deadline of 11:30 a.m. U.S. Pacific Daylight Time on 
Wednesday, May 2, 2018. 
 
During the application process you will be required to confirm that you have read and understand the Website Terms  
of Use and Privacy and Information Policy and these Rules and Guidelines, and acknowledge that any information 
that you provide to us (either orally or in writing) will be subject to and handled in accordance with such provisions. 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
The GCE-Brazil Request for Proposals is open exclusively to Brazilian researchers located in Brazilian 
organizations, including non-profit organizations, for-profit companies, international organizations, government 
agencies, and academic institutions. 
 
Upon registration, applicants must provide information about the tax status of their organization as different terms and 
conditions may apply. You should confirm your organization’s tax status with the appropriate person or group within 
your organization such as your grants or contracts department, finance, or office of sponsored research. Please select 
the tax status that most closely reflects your current organization’s status. The foundation and/or CNPq may 
request additional information regarding your tax status and other organizational information. For information 
about tax statuses, you may check with your own advisors and refer to information provided on the Internal 
Revenue Service web site at:  www.irs.gov. 
 
 
III. 
Review Process 
 
The review of proposals is a critical element of the GCE-Brazil initiative - its goal is to filter and harness creative 
 3 
 
ideas. For each grant program, we advertise a set of challenges carefully defined to elicit innovative responses to 
critical barriers in global health and development. 
 
Handling of Proposals 
 
CNPq and the foundation have put in place policies and procedures, exclusive to the initiative, intended to restrict 
public dissemination of application materials. These policies and procedures include, when possible, having 
external reviewers sign confidentiality agreements and requiring that reviewers destroy or return to the foundation 
all copies 
of information acquired or created during the course of performing a review. In some instances, 
however, we are unable to put in place confidentiality agreements or to police the use of application materials. 
 
CNPq and the foundation each also provide general descriptions of grants on its websites, in press releases, and in 
other marketing materials and is required by law to publish a list of its grants. Subject to the foundation’s Website 
Terms of Use and  Privacy and Information Policy, the foundation may also share information you provide to us 
(either orally or in writing) with third parties, including external reviewers, key partners and co-funders. 
 
Review of Proposals 
 
Due to the large number of proposals anticipated, applicants with proposals that are not selected for award will receive 
a notification of decline without specific feedback. Nonetheless, applicants are encouraged to submit ideas in future 
rounds. 
 
The review process is executed in four steps: 
 
1. The first step consists of screening submissions to evaluate whether proposals address the key needs 
described in the topic. We screen for responses that are completely unrelated or specifically excluded in 
the topic description.  In addition, we will exclude proposals considered incremental advances, or avenues 
of inquiry we deem ill-suited to this initiative or from applicants who don’t meet strict eligibility 
requirements. Applicants with proposals removed from consideration during the screening process will 
be notified that their proposals were declined but will not typically receive specific feedback.  Reviews at 
this stage are “blind”; authors’ names and institutions are not provided to reviewers. 
 
2. In the second step, responsive proposals are reviewed. The reviews will be co-chaired by GCE-Brazil and 
foundation program leads and are conducted by reviewers both outside and within the organizations. 
Reviewers are selected from the world’s leading innovative minds and comprise both experts in the topic 
area and experts in complementary areas with a track record of innovation. (Not all reviewers have deep 
expertise in the topic; please consider this information when drafting your proposal.) Unlike most grants 
initiatives, individual reviewers are empowered to make funding decisions about a portion of the 
portfolio, without consensus on selections. 
 
In order of importance, the criteria considered in these reviews are: 
• 
Innovation, including creativity of the project’s approach and clear differentiation from existing 
approaches 
• 
Scientific and technical excellence, including a clear and rigorous conceptual framework for research 
activities 
• 
Potential to lead to substantially impactful public health recommendations that are data-driven and 
cost-effective 
• 
 (Technical and human) resources, including investigator and organization capabilities and 
interdepartmental collaboration 
• 
Value in terms of appropriateness of the budget and timeline relative to project complexity, risk, and 
potential impact 
 
3. The third step is the validation and final selection by a joint Executive Committee of the proposals 
selected by reviewers in the second step of the evaluation. The Executive Committee is co-chaired by 
GCE-Brazil partners and foundation program directors. 
 4 
 
 
4. The fourth and final step is a due diligence review to ensure that applicants are appropriate recipients 
of CNPq and/or foundation funds. Investigators will be contacted as part of the due diligence review. 
 
Management of Conflict of Interest 
 
To identify and avert conflicts of interest among reviewers, reviewers will not be permitted to review proposals from 
organizations with which the reviewer has self-identified a conflict of interest. 
 
IV. 
Key Elements of Agreements for this GCE-Brazil Program 
 
You may receive a grant from the foundation, from the Brazilian Ministry of Health/CNPq, or both. Detailed sample 
provisions for each of the two foundation-funded Agreements, one for non-profit organizations and one for for-profit 
organizations, are included in the Appendix to these Rules and Guidelines. Sample agreements from CNPq can be 
found on CNPq’s Platform. Please note that these provisions are merely sample terms and are subject to change.  
 
V. 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundations – Terms and Conditions 
 
The provisions have been developed specifically for the GCE Brazil initiative and are not negotiable. You are 
advised to ensure that your institution can accept the provisions of the relevant Agreement at the time of proposal 
submission. If your proposal is selected, you will have only a few weeks after notification of the award in which 
to have the appropriate institutional officer sign the Agreement and return it to the foundation. 
 
1. Phase I projects have a term of 18 months beginning on the project start date. The amount awarded is up to 
$100,000 USD. 
 
2. Project funds may not be used to reimburse expenses incurred prior to the project start date. 
 
3. The applicant must return a fully executed agreement to the granting agency (or agencies) no later 
than the date and time indicated to receive a GCE-Brazil award. For non-profit awardees, funds will be 
disbursed upon the receipt of a fully executed agreement. Funds to for- profit entities would be covered 
fully by the foundation and disbursed in two payments. Upon receipt of a fully executed agreement, the 
foundation will disburse the first 50%. The foundation will disburse the second 50% upon receipt of a 
report describing progress on the project and use of at least 90% of the initial disbursement. 
 
4. No awardee is permitted to make sub-grants, but all awardees will be permitted to contract for services, up 
to a maximum of 49.9% of the award.  Please be aware that this limit applies to funds paid by an awardee 
to any other organization (or an individual employed at another organization) as a subcontractor, 
including payments to co-PIs working at another organization. 
 
5. All awardees are entitled to purchase equipment, provided that the cost of each item is less than $5,000 USD. 
 
6. Phase I project funds may be used to cover the full direct costs of the project, but no awardee will be entitled 
to use funds to cover indirect costs. See the Sample Agreements for the definition of indirect costs. 
 
7. For-profit non-US awardees are subject to restrictions on the amount of funds they may use for expenditures 
in the US (see sample agreement for for-profit organizations). 
 
8. Project funds may not be used to enroll human subjects in any research project subject to Institution Review 
Board (IRB) or Independent Ethics Committee (IEC) approval until such approval has been obtained for each 
site. 
 
9. Awardees must agree to conduct and manage the project and the products, services, processes, technologies, 
materials, software, data other innovations, and intellectual property resulting from the project (including 
modifications, improvements, and further developments to “Background Technology”) in a manner that 
 5 
 
ensures “Global Access.” See the Global Access Section of the Sample Agreements for more information 
about these obligations. 
 
10. Awardees must agree to abide by the foundation’s Open Access Policy which requires all peer-reviewed 
published research, and underlying data sets resulting from foundation funded research to be immediately 
available upon publication. As noted in the Open Access Policy, the foundation is responsible for individual 
article processing charges and fees to the extent required to comply with the foundation’s Open Access 
Policy. These fees should not be included in project budgets. Open access management and fees will be 
managed via Chronos, a new service for foundation-funded research. Chronos simplifies and manages the 
process of publishing under the foundation's Open Access Policy terms. Primary contacts will receive a 
Chronos account activation email 6 weeks after the agreement start date. 
 
The Agreement and specific provisions that apply to a project depend on the tax status of the applicant. We strongly 
encourage you to share the Sample Agreements with the appropriate person or group within your organization such 
as your grants and contracts department, legal department, finance or office of sponsored research at the time you 
submit your proposal to ensure that your organization can agree to the relevant provisions. 
 
VI. 
Ministry of Health and CNPq – Terms and Conditions 
 
Awardees will also have to submit the approved proposal by BMGF to CNPq Carlos Chagas Integrated Platform - 
http://carloschagas.cnpq.br/, to be co-funded by the Brazilian federal government. Funding resources from Ministry 
of Health will be available through CNPq. As soon as the results are released, CNPq will contact awardees to inform 
them on procedures to request this support. 
 
Please be aware that:  
 
1. 
Applicants must have their curriculum vitae registered and updated at Lattes Platform; 
2. 
Applicants must be the coordinator of the proposals; 
 
During the project development, awardees must provide information concerning their studies whenever requested 
by CNPq for the track and evaluation process at all stages. At the end of 18 months term, coordinators must provide 
CNPq a Final Scientific and Financial Report.  
 
VII. 
FAPs – Terms and Conditions 
 
Through an agreement with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Brazilian State Research Foundations (FAPs) 
participating in this call will provide additional funding to granted projects lead by researchers from their state. The 
amount will range from 25% to 50% of the US$100,000 already granted by the Gates Foundation, the MOH and 
CNPq. (a) Only FAPs participating on the call will be able to provide supplemental funding -- a list of participating 
FAPs will be available on Grand Challenges website on March 12th; (b) The additional funding may vary within 
the range above as defined by each FAP. (c) As soon as the results are out, the grantees should contact the Brazilian 
National Council for the State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) by the email flaviac.confap@gmail.com to receive 
information on participating FAPs, funding levels, eligibility and procedures to request the additional support. 
 
VIII. 
Terms of Use, Privacy Notice and Information Security 
 
This document and your application are subject to the Terms of Use and Privacy & Information Security Policy which 
are located at https://gcgh.grandchallenges.org/privacy-policy-and-terms-use  
 
 
IX. 
Inquiries 
 
Please direct all questions about this initiative, selection criteria, or application instructions by e-mail to the following 
addresses: cgsau@cnpq.br or GCEhelp@gatesfoundation.org. For inquiries on CIDACS databases, please email 
cidacs@bahia.fiocruz.br. 
 6 
 
Appendix 
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation: Sample Provisions 
 
I. 
Term of Offers 
 
GCE-Brazil awards are conditioned upon the foundation’s and CNPq’s receipt of an executed agreement by the 
date indicated by the Grants and Contracts Management team in the email to which the Agreement is attached. 
Agreements received after the deadline may not be considered for funding. More information will be sent to 
those being considered for an award. 
 
Set forth below are samples of the foundation’s Agreements used in making GCE-Brazil awards.  Please note that 
these provisions are merely sample terms.  The terms in the agreements between the foundation and GCE-Brazil 
awardees are subject to change at the foundation’s discretion.   
 
II. 
Sample Agreement for Non-Profit Organizations (See below for Sample Agreement for 
For- Profit Organizations) 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is between <<>> ("<<>>," "You" or "Grantee") and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
("Foundation"), and is effective as of the date of last signature. Each party to this Agreement may be 
referred to individually as a "Party" and together as the "Parties." As a condition of this grant, the Parties 
enter into this Agreement by having their authorized representatives sign below. 
 
GRANT AMOUNT AND REPORTING & PAYMENT SCHEDULE 
 
GRANT AMOUNT 
The Foundation will pay You the total grant amount specified in the Reporting & Payment Schedule 
below. The Foundation’s Primary Contact must approve in writing any Budget cost category change of 
more than 10%. 
 
REPORTING & PAYMENT SCHEDULE 
Payments are subject to Your compliance with this Agreement, including Your achievement, and the 
Foundation’s approval, of any applicable targets, milestones, and reporting deliverables required under 
this Agreement. The Foundation may, in its reasonable discretion, modify payment dates or amounts and 
will notify You of any such changes in writing. 
 
REPORTING 
You will submit reports according to the Reporting & Payment Schedule using the Foundation's templates 
or forms, which the Foundation will make available to You and which may be modified from time to time. 
For a progress or final report to be considered satisfactory, it must demonstrate meaningful progress 
against the targets or milestones for that investment period. If meaningful progress has not been made, 
the report should explain why not and what adjustments You are making to get back on track. Please 
notify the Foundation's Primary Contact if You need to add or modify any targets or milestones. The 
Foundation must approve any such changes in writing. You agree to submit other reports the Foundation 
may reasonably request. 
 
TERMS & CONDITIONS 
 
This Agreement is subject to the following terms and conditions.  
 
 PROJECT SUPPORT 
 
  
 
 7 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND CHARITABLE PURPOSE 
The Foundation is awarding You this grant to carry out the project described in the Proposal Narrative 
(collectively, "Project") in order to further the Charitable Purpose. The Foundation, in its discretion, may 
approve in writing any request by You to make non-material changes to the Proposal Narrative. 
 
 
 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS 
 
  
 
USE OF FUNDS 
You may not use funds provided under this Agreement ("Grant Funds") for any purpose other than the 
Project. You may not use Grant Funds to reimburse any expenses You incurred prior to the Start Date. 
At the Foundation’s request, You will repay any portion of Grant Funds and/or Income used or committed 
in material breach of this Agreement, as determined by the Foundation in its discretion. 
 
LIMITATIONS ON CAPITAL ASSETS  
You may use the Grant Funds to purchase capital assets such as equipment so long as the assets are 
used exclusively for the Project during the term of the grant and the cost of any single capital item does 
not           exceed 5% of the total grant amount. 
 
INDIRECT COSTS 
Grant funds may not be used to pay any indirect costs. Indirect costs are defined as (1) overhead 
expenses incurred as a result of the Project, but that are not easily identifiable with the Project and (2) 
administrative expenses that are related to overall general operations and are shared among projects 
and/or functions. Examples of indirect costs include, but are not limited to, executive oversight, 
accounting, grants management, legal expenses, utilities, facility maintenance 
 
INVESTMENT OF FUNDS 
You must invest Grant Funds in highly liquid investments with the primary objective of preservation of 
principal (e.g., interest-bearing bank accounts or a registered money market mutual fund) so that the 
Grant Funds are available for the Project. Together with any progress or final reports required under this 
Agreement, You must report the amount of any currency conversion gains (or losses) and the amount of 
any interest, or other income generated by the Grant Funds (collectively, "Income"). Any Income must 
be used for the Project. 
 
 GLOBAL ACCESS 
 
  
 
GLOBAL ACCESS COMMITMENT 
You will conduct and manage the Project and the Funded Developments in a manner that ensures Global 
Access. Your Global Access commitments will survive the term of this Agreement. “Funded 
Developments” means the products, services, processes, technologies, materials, software, data, other 
innovations, and intellectual property resulting from the Project (including modifications, improvements, 
and further developments to Background Technology). “Background Technology” means any and all 
products, services, processes, technologies, materials, software, data, or other innovations, and 
intellectual property created by You or a third party prior to or outside of the Project used as part of the 
Project. “Global Access” means: (a) the knowledge and information gained from the Project will be 
promptly and broadly disseminated; and (b) the Funded Developments will be made available and 
accessible at an affordable price (i) to people most in need within developing countries, or (ii) in support 
of the U.S. educational system and public libraries, as applicable to the Project. 
 
PUBLICATION 
 8 
 
Consistent with Your Global Access commitments, if the Project description specifies Publication or 
Publication is otherwise requested by the Foundation, You will seek prompt Publication of any Funded 
Developments consisting of data and results. “Publication” means publication in a peer-reviewed journal 
or other method of public dissemination specified in the Project description or otherwise approved by the 
Foundation in writing. Publication may be delayed for a reasonable period for the sole purpose of seeking 
patent protection, provided the patent application is drafted, filed, and managed in a manner that best 
furthers Global Access.  If You seek Publication in a peer-reviewed journal, such Publication shall be 
under “open access” terms and conditions consistent with the Foundation’s Open Access Policy available 
at: www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Open-Access-Policy, which may be 
modified from time to time. Nothing in this section shall be construed as requiring Publication in 
contravention of any applicable ethical, legal, or regulatory requirements. You will mark any Funded 
Development subject to this clause with the appropriate notice or attribution, including author, date and 
copyright (e.g., © 20<> <Name>). 
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REPORTING 
During the term of this Agreement and for 5 years after, You will submit upon request annual intellectual 
property reports related to the Funded Developments, Background Technology, and any related 
agreements using the Foundation’s templates or forms, which the Foundation may modify from time to 
time. 
 
 SUBGRANTS AND SUBCONTRACTS 
 
 
 
SUBGRANTS AND SUBCONTRACTS 
You have the exclusive right to select subcontractors to assist with the Project. The aggregate amount 
of Project Funds paid to subcontractors may not exceed $49,999. You acknowledge that the 
Foundation has not and will not earmark the use of any Project Funds for a specific subcontractor. You 
may not make subgrants under this Agreement. 
 
SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS 
You will have sole discretion over Your selection of any scholarship and fellowship recipients under this 
Agreement and must conduct the selection process independently of the Foundation. 
 
TRAVEL STIPENDS AND CONFERENCE FEES  
You will have sole discretion over Your selection of any recipients of travel stipends or conference 
expense reimbursements under this Agreement and must conduct the selection process independently 
of the Foundation. Foundation trustees and employees are not eligible to receive travel stipends or 
conference expense reimbursements. 
 
RESPONSIBILITY FOR OTHERS 
You are responsible for (a) all acts and omissions of any of Your trustees, directors, officers, employees, 
subgrantees, subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, and affiliates assisting with the Project, and 
(b) ensuring their compliance with the terms of this Agreement. 
. 
 
 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES 
 
  
 
ANTI-TERRORISM 
You will not use funds provided under this Agreement, directly or indirectly, in support of activities (a) 
prohibited by U.S. laws relating to combating terrorism; (b) with persons on the List of Specially 
Designated Nationals (www.treasury.gov/sdn) or entities owned or controlled by such persons; or (c) in 
or with countries or territories against which the U.S. maintains comprehensive sanctions (currently, 
Cuba, Iran, Syria, North Korea, and the Crimea Region of Ukraine), including paying or reimbursing the 
 9 
 
expenses of persons from such countries or territories, unless such activities are fully authorized by the 
U.S. government under applicable law and specifically approved by the Foundation in its sole discretion. 
 
ANTI-CORRUPTION; ANTI-BRIBERY 
You will not offer or provide money, gifts, or any other things of value directly or indirectly to anyone in 
order to improperly influence any act or decision relating to the Foundation or the Project, including by 
assisting any party to secure an improper advantage. Training and information on compliance with these 
requirements are available at www.learnfoundationlaw.org. 
 
 
LOBBYING AND ELECTIONEERING PROHIBITION 
You may not use Grant Funds to influence the outcome of any election for public office or to carry on any 
voter registration drive. You acknowledge that the Foundation has not earmarked Grant Funds to support 
lobbying activities or to otherwise support attempts to influence legislation. Activities will be conducted 
consistent with the private foundation lobbying rules and exceptions under Internal Revenue Code 
Section 4945 and related regulations. You confirm that the Budget (or the combined project budget if 
there are multiple funders) accurately reflects that You will expend at least the amount of the Grant Funds 
on (a) non-lobbying activities in the project year, or (b) for multiple year projects, the total non-lobbying 
portion of the project. 
 
OTHER LOBBYING, GIFT, AND ETHICS RULES  
You agree to comply with any national, state, local, or other lobbying, gift, and ethics rules applicable to 
the Project. The Foundation is not retaining or employing You to engage in lobbying activities. 
 
 PUBLICITY 
 
 
 
PUBLICITY BY THE FOUNDATION 
The Foundation may include information about the award of this grant, including Your name, in its 
periodic public reports and may make such information available on its website and as part of press 
releases, public reports, speeches, newsletters, tax returns, and other public disclosures. 
PUBLICITY BY YOU 
You must obtain the Foundation’s prior written approval before: (a) issuing a press release or 
other public announcement regarding the award of this grant; and (b) any other public use of 
the 
Foundation’s 
name 
or 
logo. 
. 
Please 
email 
Your 
request 
to: 
grantee.comms@gatesfoundation.org two weeks in advance to provide the Foundation an 
opportunity 
to 
review 
and 
comment. 
Detailed 
guidelines 
are 
available 
at: 
www.gatesfoundation.org/grantseeker/documents/guidelines_communications_for_grantees.
doc 
 
PUBLICITY BY OTHERS 
You and Your subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, or affiliates may not state or 
imply to third parties that the Foundation directly funds or otherwise endorses their activities. 
 
OTHER 
 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
In carrying out the Project, You will comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and rules and will not infringe, 
misappropriate, or violate the intellectual property, privacy, or publicity rights of any third party. 
 
COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS 
You will conduct, control, manage, and monitor the Project in compliance with all applicable ethical, legal, 
regulatory, and safety requirements, including applicable international, national, local, and institutional 
standards (“Requirements”). You will obtain and maintain all necessary approvals, consents, and reviews 
 10 
 
before conducting the applicable activity. As a part of Your annual progress report to the Foundation, 
You must report whether the Project activities were conducted in compliance with all Requirements.  
  
If the Project involves:  
a.  any protected information (including personally identifiable, protected health, or third-party 
confidential), You will not disclose this information to the Foundation without obtaining the 
Foundation’s prior written approval and all necessary consents to disclose such information; 
b.  children or vulnerable subjects, You will obtain any necessary consents and approvals unique to 
these subjects; and/or 
c.  any trial involving human subjects, You will adhere to current Good Clinical Practice as defined by 
the International Council on Harmonisation (ICH) E-6 Standards (or local regulations if more 
stringent) and will obtain applicable trial insurance.  
  
Any activities by the Foundation in reviewing documents and providing input or funding does not modify 
Your responsibility for determining and complying with all Requirements for the Project. 
 
RELIANCE 
You acknowledge that the Foundation is relying on the information You provide in reports and during the 
course of any due diligence conducted prior to the Start Date and during the term of this Agreement. You 
represent that the Foundation may continue to rely on this information and on any additional information 
You provide regarding activities, progress, and Funded Developments. 
 
INDEMNIFICATION 
If the Project involves clinical trials, trials involving human subjects, post-approval studies, field trials 
involving genetically modified organisms, experimental medicine, or the provision of medical/health 
services (“Indemnified Activities”), You will indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Foundation and its 
trustees, employees, and agents (“Indemnified Parties”) from and against any and all demands, claims, 
actions, suits, losses, damages (including property damage, bodily injury, and wrongful death), arbitration 
and legal proceedings, judgments, settlements, or costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ 
fees and expenses) (collectively, “Claims”) arising out of or relating to the acts or omissions, actual or 
alleged, of You or Your employees, subgrantees, subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, and 
affiliates with respect to the Indemnified Activities. You agree that any activities by the Foundation in 
connection with the Project, such as its review or proposal of suggested modifications to the Project, will 
not modify or waive the Foundation’s rights under this paragraph. An Indemnified Party may, at its own 
expense, employ separate counsel to monitor and participate in the defense of any Claim. Your 
indemnification obligations are limited to the extent permitted or precluded under applicable federal, state 
or local laws, including federal or state tort claims acts, the Federal Anti-Deficiency Act, state 
governmental immunity acts, or state constitutions. Nothing in this Agreement will constitute an express 
or implied waiver of Your governmental and sovereign immunities, if any. 
 
INSURANCE 
You will maintain insurance coverage sufficient to cover the activities, risks, and potential omissions of 
the Project in accordance with generally-accepted industry standards and as required by law. You will 
ensure Your subgrantees and subcontractors maintain insurance coverage consistent with this section. 
 
 
 TERM AND TERMINATION 
 
  
TERM  
This Agreement commences on the Start Date and continues until the End Date, unless terminated 
earlier as provided in this Agreement. The Foundation, in its discretion, may approve in writing any 
request by You for a no-cost extension, amend the End, and adjust any affected reporting requirements. 
 
TERMINATION 
 11 
 
The Foundation may modify, suspend, or discontinue any payment of Grant Funds or 
terminate this Agreement if: (a) the Foundation is not reasonably satisfied with Your progress 
on the Project; (b) there are significant changes to Your leadership or other factors that the 
Foundation reasonably believes may threaten the Project’s success; (c) there is a change in 
Your control; or (d) You fail to comply with this Agreement. 
 
 
RETURN OF FUNDS 
Any Grant Funds that have not been used for, or committed to, the Project upon expiration or termination 
of this Agreement must be (a) returned promptly to the Foundation, (b) applied to another Foundation-
funded project (current or under consideration), or (c) applied to another mutually-agreed upon charitable 
purpose, as directed in writing by the Foundation. Any Income that has not been used for, or committed 
to, the Project must be either applied to another Foundation-funded project (current or under 
consideration) or applied to another mutually-agreed upon charitable purpose, as directed in writing by 
the Foundation. 
 
MONITORING, REVIEW, AND AUDIT 
N/A if grantee is a government unit or international executive order organization: 
The Foundation may monitor and review Your use of the Grant Funds, performance of the Project, and 
compliance with this Agreement, which may include onsite visits to assess Your organization’s 
governance, management and operations, discuss Your program and finances, and review relevant 
financial and other records and materials. In addition, the Foundation may conduct audits, including 
onsite audits, at any time during the term of this Agreement, and within four years after Grant Funds have 
been fully spent. Any onsite visit or audit shall be conducted at the Foundation’s expense, following prior 
written notice, during normal business hours, and no more than once during any 12-month period.  
 
INTERNAL OR THIRD PARTY AUDIT 
N/A if grantee is a government unit or international executive order organization: 
If during the term of this Agreement You are audited by your internal audit department or by a third party, 
You will provide the audit report to the Foundation upon request, including the management letter and a 
detailed plan for remedying any deficiencies observed (“Remediation Plan”). The Remediation Plan must 
include (a) details of actions You will take to correct any deficiencies observed, and (b) target dates for 
successful completion of the actions to correct the deficiencies. 
 
RECORD KEEPING  
You will maintain complete and accurate accounting records and copies of any reports submitted to the 
Foundation relating to the Project. You will retain such records and reports for 4 years after Grant Funds 
have been fully spent. At the Foundation’s request, You will make such records and reports available to 
enable the Foundation to monitor and evaluate how Grant Funds have been used or committed. 
 
SURVIVAL 
A Party’s obligations under this Agreement will be continuous and survive expiration or termination of 
this Agreement as expressly provided in this Agreement or otherwise required by law or intended by their 
nature. 
 
 
 GENERAL 
 
  
 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENTS 
This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the Parties and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous 
agreements concerning its subject matter. Except as specifically permitted in this Agreement, no modification, 
amendment, or waiver of any provision of this Agreement will be effective unless in writing and signed by 
authorized representatives of both Parties. 
 
 12 
 
NOTICES AND APPROVALS 
Written notices, requests, and approvals under this Agreement must be delivered by mail or email to the 
other Party’s primary contact specified on the Agreement Summary & Signature Page, or as otherwise 
directed by the other Party. 
 
SEVERABILITY 
Each provision of this Agreement must be interpreted in a way that is enforceable under applicable law. If 
any provision is held unenforceable, the rest of the Agreement will remain in effect. 
 
ASSIGNMENT 
You may not assign, or transfer by operation of law or court order, any of Your rights or obligations under this 
Agreement without the Foundation’s prior written approval. This Agreement will bind and benefit any 
permitted successors and assigns. 
 
COUNTERPARTS AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES 
Except as may be prohibited by applicable law or regulation, this Agreement and any amendment may be 
signed in counterparts, by facsimile, PDF, or other electronic means, each of which will be deemed an original 
and all of which when taken together will constitute one agreement. Facsimile and electronic signatures will 
be binding for all purposes.  
 
III. Sample Agreement for For-Profit Organizations 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is between <<>> (“<<>>” or “You”) and the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation 
(“Foundation”), and is effective as of the date of last signature. Each party to the Agreement may be referred 
to individually as a “Party” and together as the “Parties.” In consideration of the mutual promises contained 
in this Agreement, the Parties enter into this Agreement by having their authorized representatives sign 
the Agreement. 
PAYMENT AND REPORTING 
 
 MAXIMUM AMOUNT 
  The Foundation will pay You [up to $100,000]. 
 
REPORTING & PAYMENT SCHEDULE 
Payments are subject to Your compliance with this Agreement, including Your achievement, 
and the Foundation’s approval, of any applicable targets, milestones, and reporting deliverables 
required under this Agreement.  The Foundation may, in its reasonable discretion, modify 
payment dates or amounts and will notify You of any such changes in writing.  
 
REPORTING 
You will submit reports according to the Reporting & Payment Schedule using the Foundation's 
templates or forms, which the Foundation will make available to You and which may be modified 
from time to time.  You will submit Your Reports via email to the Program Coordinator according 
to the payment table below, at GCE@gatesfoundation.org.  For a progress or final report to be 
considered satisfactory, it must demonstrate meaningful progress against the targets or 
milestones for that investment period. If meaningful progress has not been made, the report 
should explain why not and what adjustments You are making to get back on track. The 
Foundation must approve any such changes in writing. You agree to submit other reports the 
Foundation may reasonably request. 
 
ACCOUNTING FOR PERSONNEL TIME 
 13 
 
You will track the time of all employees, contingent workers, and any other individuals whose 
compensation will be paid in whole or in part by Project Funds. Such individuals will keep 
records (e.g., timesheets) of actual time worked on the Project in increments of sixty minutes or 
less and a brief description of tasks performed. You will report actual time worked consistent 
with those records in Your progress and final budget reports. You will submit such copies of 
records to the Foundation upon request. 
 
REPORTING & PAYMENT SCHEDULE 
Investment Period 
Reporting Deliverable 
Due By 
Payment Date 
Payment 
Amount 
 
 
Counter Signed 
Project Agreement 
TBD 
Within 
15 
days 
after 
receipt 
of 
countersigned 
Agreement 
 
Up to 50% of 
the 
grant 
total 
 
Start Date to 
Date on or after 
first 
90% of Project 
Funds Expended 
Second Payment 
Release 
Progress 
Report* 
Reasonable 
period of 
time after 
first 
90% of 
Project 
 
 
45 days 
after 
report is 
received 
Up to 50% of 
the grant total 
TBD 
12-Month 
Progress Report** 
TBD 
_ 
_ 
Start Date to 
End Date 
Final Financial 
and Scientific 
 
TBD 
 
 
 
 
Total Grant 
 
mount 
Up to $100,000 
*If this report is submitted after the 12-month Progress Report it needs to describe only the progress and 
spending of Project Funds not covered in the 12-month Progress Report. 
 
**The 12-Month Report must be submitted by its due date, which may be before or after submission of the 
Second Payment Release Progress Report. If the 12-Month Report is submitted after the Second 
Payment Progress Report, the 12-Month Report needs to describe only the progress and spending of 
Project Funds not covered in the Second Payment Progress Report. 
 
All questions regarding Your reporting obligations should be submitted electronically to the Grand 
Challenges Explorations Program Coordinator at the email address listed above. 
 
 
TERMS & CONDITIONS 
This Agreement, is subject to the following terms and conditions. 
 PROJECT SUPPORT   
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND CHARITABLE PURPOSE 
You agree to carry out the project described in the Proposal Narrative (“Project”) in order to further the 
Charitable Purpose. 
 
 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS  
 
 
USE OF FUNDS 
 14 
 
You may not use funds provided under this Agreement (“Project Funds”) for any purpose other 
than the Project. You may not use Project Funds to reimburse any expenses You incurred prior 
to the Start Date.  Together with the final report required under this Agreement, You must report 
investment activities and the amount of any currency conversion gains (or losses) and the 
amount of any interest or other income generated by the Project Funds (collectively, “Income”). 
Any Income must be used for the Project.  
  
For Foreign Orgs. Only ACTIVITIES IN THE U.S.  
You may not use more than 20% of Project Funds for activities in the U.S., including travel to 
or from the U.S. 
  
SEGREGATION OF FUNDS 
You must maintain Project Funds in a physically separate bank account dedicated to the 
Project. 
 
LIMITATIONS ON CAPITAL ASSETS 
You may use the Project Funds to purchase capital assets such as equipment so long as the 
assets are used exclusively for the Project during the term of the Agreement and the cost of 
any single capital item does not exceed $5,000. 
  
INDIRECT COSTS 
Project funds may not be used to pay any indirect costs. Indirect costs are defined as (1) 
overhead expenses incurred as a result of the Project, but that are not easily identifiable with 
the Project and (2) administrative expenses that are related to overall general operations and 
are shared among projects and/or functions. Examples of indirect costs include, but are not 
limited to, executive oversight, accounting, agreement management, legal expenses, utilities, 
facility maintenance. 
 
 GLOBAL ACCESS  
GLOBAL ACCESS COMMITMENT 
You will conduct and manage the Project and the Funded Developments in a manner that 
ensures Global Access. Your Global Access commitments will survive the term of this 
Agreement. “Funded Developments” means the products, services, processes, technologies, 
materials, software, data, other innovations, and intellectual property resulting from the Project 
(including modifications, improvements, and further developments to Background Technology). 
“Background Technology” means any and all products, services, processes, technologies, 
materials, software, data, other innovations, and intellectual property created by You or a third 
party prior to or outside of the Project used as part of the Project. “Global Access” means: (a) 
the knowledge and information gained from the Project will be promptly and broadly 
disseminated; and (b) the Funded Developments will be made available and accessible at an 
affordable price (i) to people most in need within developing countries, or (ii) in support of the 
U.S. educational system and public libraries, as applicable to the Project. 
  
PUBLICATION 
Consistent with Your Global Access commitments, if the Project description specifies 
Publication or Publication is otherwise requested by the Foundation, You will seek prompt 
Publication of any Funded Developments consisting of data and results. “Publication” means 
publication in a peer-reviewed journal or other method of public dissemination specified in the 
Project description or otherwise approved by the Foundation in writing. Publication may be 
delayed for a reasonable period for the sole purpose of seeking patent protection, provided 
 15 
 
the patent application is drafted, filed, and managed in a manner that best furthers Global 
Access.  If You seek Publication in a peer-reviewed journal, such Publication shall be under 
“open access” terms and conditions consistent with the Foundation’s Open Access Policy 
available at: www.gatesfoundation.org/How-We-Work/General-Information/Open-Access-
Policy, which may be modified from time to time. Nothing in this section shall be construed as 
requiring Publication in contravention of any applicable ethical, legal, or regulatory 
requirements. You will mark any Funded Development subject to this clause with the 
appropriate notice or attribution, including author, date and copyright (e.g., © 20<> <Name>). 
 
 SUBGRANTS AND SUBCONTRACTS  
SUBGRANTS AND SUBCONTRACTS  
You have the exclusive right to select subcontractors to assist with the Project. The aggregate 
amount of Project Funds paid to subcontractors may not exceed $49,999. You acknowledge 
that the Foundation has not and will not earmark the use of any Project Funds for a specific 
subcontractor. You may not make subgrants under this Agreement. 
  
RESPONSIBILITY FOR OTHERS 
You are responsible for all acts and omissions of any of Your trustees, directors, officers, 
employees, subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, and affiliates assisting with the Project 
and ensuring their compliance with the terms of this Agreement. 
 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES  
  
ANTI-TERRORISM 
You will not use funds provided under this Agreement, directly or indirectly, in support of 
activities (a) prohibited by U.S. laws related to combatting terrorism; (b) with persons on the 
List of Specially Designated Nationals (www.treasury.gov/sdn) or entities owned or controlled 
by such persons; or (c) in or with countries or territories against which the U.S. maintains 
comprehensive sanctions (currently, Cuba, Iran, Syria, North Korea, and the Crimea Region of 
Ukraine), including paying or reimbursing the expenses of persons from such countries or 
territories, unless such activities are fully authorized by the U.S. government under applicable 
law and specifically approved by the Foundation in its sole discretion. 
  
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY 
You will not offer or provide money, gifts, or any other things of value directly or indirectly to 
anyone in order to improperly influence any act or decision relating to the Foundation or the 
Project, including by assisting any party to secure an improper advantage. Training and 
information 
on 
compliance 
with 
these 
requirements 
are 
available 
at 
www.learnfoundationlaw.org. 
 
POLITICAL ACTIVITY AND ADVOCACY 
You may not use Project Funds to influence the outcome of any election for public office or to 
carry on any voter registration drive. You may not use Project Funds to support lobbying activity 
or to otherwise support attempts to influence local, state, federal, or foreign legislation. Your 
strategies and activities, and any materials produced with Project Funds, must comply with 
applicable local, state, federal, or foreign lobbying law. You agree to comply with lobbying, gift, 
and ethics rules applicable to the Project. 
 
OTHER LOBBYING, GIFT, AND ETHICS RULES  
You agree to comply with any national, state, local, or other lobbying, gift, and ethics rules 
applicable to the Project. The Foundation is not retaining or employing You to engage in 
 16 
 
lobbying activities 
 
  
OTHER 
 
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS 
In carrying out the Project, You will comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and rules and 
will not infringe, misappropriate, or violate the intellectual property, privacy, or publicity rights of 
any third party. 
 
COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS 
You will conduct, control, manage, and monitor the Project in compliance with all applicable 
ethical, legal, regulatory, and safety requirements, including applicable international, 
national, local, and institutional standards (“Requirements”). You will obtain and maintain all 
necessary approvals, consents, and reviews before conducting the applicable activity. As a 
part of Your annual progress report to the Foundation, You must report whether the Project 
activities were conducted in compliance with all Requirements.  
 
If the Project involves:  
a. any protected information (including personally identifiable, protected health, or third-
party confidential), You will not disclose this information to the Foundation without 
obtaining the Foundation’s prior written approval and all necessary consents to disclose 
such information; 
b. children or vulnerable subjects, You will obtain any necessary consents and approvals 
unique to these subjects; and/or 
c. any trial involving human subjects, You will adhere to current Good Clinical Practice as 
defined by the International Council on Harmonisation (ICH) E-6 Standards (or local 
regulations if more stringent) and will obtain applicable trial insurance.  
 
Any activities by the Foundation in reviewing documents and providing input or funding does 
not modify Your responsibility for determining and complying with all Requirements for the 
Project. 
 
 
RELIANCE 
You acknowledge that the Foundation is relying on the information You provide in reports and 
during the course of any due diligence conducted prior to the Start Date and during the term of 
this Agreement. You represent that the Foundation may continue to rely on this information and 
on any additional information You provide regarding activities, progress, and Funded 
Developments. 
 
INDEMNIFICATION 
If the Project involves clinical trials, trials involving human subjects, post-approval studies, field 
trials involving genetically modified organisms, experimental medicine, or the provision of 
medical/health services (“Indemnified Activities”), You will indemnify, defend, and hold 
harmless the Foundation and its trustees, employees, and agents (“Indemnified Parties”) from 
and against any and all demands, claims, actions, suits, losses, damages (including property 
damage, bodily injury, and wrongful death), arbitration and legal proceedings, judgments, 
settlements, or costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses) 
(collectively, “Claims”) arising out of or relating to the acts or omissions, actual or alleged, of 
 17 
 
You or Your employees, subgrantees, subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, and 
affiliates with respect to the Indemnified Activities. You agree that any activities by the 
Foundation in connection with the Project, such as its review or proposal of suggested 
modifications to the Project, will not modify or waive the Foundation’s rights under this 
paragraph. An Indemnified Party may, at its own expense, employ separate counsel to monitor 
and participate in the defense of any Claim. Your indemnification obligations are limited to the 
extent permitted or precluded under applicable federal, state or local laws, including federal or 
state tort claims acts, the Federal Anti-Deficiency Act, state governmental immunity acts, or 
state constitutions. Nothing in this Agreement will constitute an express or implied waiver of 
Your governmental and sovereign immunities, if any. 
 
INSURANCE 
You will maintain insurance coverage sufficient to cover the activities, risks, and potential omissions of 
the Project in accordance with generally-accepted industry standards and as required by law. You will 
ensure Your subgrantees and subcontractors maintain insurance coverage consistent with this section. 
 
PUBLICITY 
 
PUBLICITY BY THE FOUNDATION  
The Foundation may include information about the Project and this Agreement, including Your 
name, in its periodic public reports and may make such information available on its website and 
as part of press releases, public reports, speeches, newsletters, tax returns, and other public 
disclosures. 
  
PUBLICITY BY YOU 
You must obtain the Foundation’s prior written approval before: (a) issuing a press release or 
other public announcement regarding this Agreement; and (b) any other public use of the 
Foundation’s 
name 
or 
logo. 
Please 
email 
Your 
request 
to: 
Grantee.Comms@gatesfoundation.org two weeks in advance to provide the Foundation an 
opportunity to review and comment.  Detailed guidelines are available at: 
www.gatesfoundation.org/grantseeker/documents/guidelines_communications_for_grantees.
doc. 
  
PUBLICITY BY OTHERS 
You and Your subcontractors, contingent workers, agents, or affiliates may not state or imply 
to third parties that the Foundation directly funds or otherwise endorses their activities. 
 
 TERM AND TERMINATION  
TERM 
This Agreement commences on the Start Date and continues until the End Date, unless 
terminated earlier as provided in this Agreement. The Foundation, in its discretion, may approve 
in writing any request by You for a no-cost extension, including amending the End Date and 
adjusting any affected reporting requirements. 
  
TERMINATION 
The Foundation may modify, suspend, or discontinue any payment of Project Funds or 
terminate this Agreement if: (a) the Foundation is not reasonably satisfied with Your progress 
on the Project; (b) there are significant changes to Your leadership or other factors that the 
Foundation reasonably believes may threaten the Project’s success; (c) there is a change in 
Your control; (d) there is a change in Your tax status; or (e) You fail to comply with this 
Agreement. 
 18 
 
  
RETURN OF FUNDS 
Any Project Funds, plus any Income, that have not been used for, or committed to, the Project 
by the End Date, must be returned promptly to the Foundation. 
 
 
MONITORING, REVIEW, AND AUDIT 
N/A if grantee is a government unit or international executive order organization: 
The Foundation may monitor and review Your use of the Project Funds, performance of the 
Project, and compliance with this Agreement, which may include onsite visits to assess Your 
organization’s governance, management and operations, discuss Your program and finances, 
and review relevant financial and other records and materials. In addition, the Foundation may 
conduct audits, including onsite audits, at any time during the term of this Agreement, and within 
four years after Project Funds have been fully spent. Any onsite visit or audit shall be conducted 
at the Foundation’s expense, following prior written notice, during normal business hours, and 
no more than once during any 12-month period.  
 
INTERNAL OR THIRD PARTY AUDIT 
N/A if grantee is a government unit or international executive order organization: 
If during the term of this Agreement You are audited by your internal audit department or by a 
third party, You will provide the audit report to the Foundation upon request, including the 
management letter and a detailed plan for remedying any deficiencies observed (“Remediation 
Plan”). The Remediation Plan must include (a) details of actions You will take to correct any 
deficiencies observed, and (b) target dates for successful completion of the actions to correct 
the deficiencies. 
  
RECORD KEEPING 
You will maintain complete and accurate accounting records and copies of any reports 
submitted to the Foundation relating to the Project. You will retain such records and reports for 
4 years after Project Funds have been fully spent. At the Foundation’s request, You will make 
such records and reports available to enable the Foundation to monitor and evaluate how 
Project Funds have been used or committed. 
  
SURVIVAL 
A Party’s obligations under this Agreement will be continuous and survive expiration or 
termination of this Agreement as expressly provided in this Agreement or otherwise required 
by law or intended by their nature. 
 
GENERAL 
 
ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND AMENDMENTS 
This Agreement contains the entire agreement of the Parties and supersedes all prior and 
contemporaneous agreements concerning its subject matter. Except as specifically permitted 
in this Agreement, no modification, amendment, or waiver of any provision of this Agreement 
will be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized representatives of both Parties. 
  
NOTICES AND APPROVALS 
Written notices, requests, and approvals under this Agreement must be delivered by mail or 
email to the other Party’s primary contact specified on the Agreement Summary & Signature 
Page, or as otherwise directed by the other Party. 
  
 19 
 
SEVERABILITY  
Each provision of this Agreement must be interpreted in a way that is enforceable under 
applicable law. If any provision is held unenforceable, the rest of the Agreement will remain in 
effect. 
  
ASSIGNMENT 
You may not assign, or transfer by operation of law or court order, any of Your rights or 
obligations under this Agreement without the Foundation’s prior written approval. This 
Agreement will bind and benefit any permitted successors and assigns. 
  
COUNTERPARTS AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURES 
Except as may be prohibited by applicable law or regulation, this Agreement and any 
amendment may be signed in counterparts, by facsimile, PDF, or other electronic means, each 
of which will be deemed an original and all of which when taken together will constitute one 
agreement. Facsimile and electronic signatures will be binding for all purposes. 
 
  
Grand Challenges Explorations – Brazil: 
Data Science Approaches to Improve Maternal and Child 
Health in Brazil 
 
Application Form 
 
Please enter proposal text in Sections I and II according to the instructions within each section. 
If you choose to include charts, graphs, or references, add them within the appropriate section. 
Each proposal must have two (2) duplicate copies, one in Portuguese and one in English. 
 
Your application must be formatted as follows.  
• 
Applicants must be Brazilian working for a Brazilian institution 
• 
No longer than two (2) pages for each language 
• 
11 point font or larger 
• 
At least 1.25cm margins all around 
• 
Single line spacing 
• 
Standard character spacing (neither expanded nor condensed) 
• 
Arial or Times New Roman font 
• 
The entire file should be 2MB or less 
Proposals that do not adhere to these restrictions may be blocked from submission and review. 
 
Section I. What is your idea? 
Use this section to briefly describe your idea. Read the topic description carefully to make sure 
that your idea directly fits the topic; otherwise your proposal may be disqualified.   
• 
Indicate in one or two sentences in bold the essence of your idea.   
• 
Why is your idea an unconventional or creative approach to the problem outlined in the 
topic?   
• 
Describe the hypothesis for your proposal and why you expect it to succeed. 
 
Section II. How will you test it? 
Use this section to briefly describe the project design and implementation plan. 
• 
Describe your experimental plan, including any new technologies or tools to be 
developed. 
• 
How will the work you describe be performed within the budget (up to USD$100,000) 
and time period (eighteen [18] months) allocated? This 18-month time period should 
include project work time, ramp up and required reporting.  
• 
What essential data will you generate?  
• 
If your experiments are successful, what are the next steps? 
• 
Please include a brief breakdown of allowable direct costs under the following 
categories: personnel, supplies, subcontracts, travel, and other expenses (equipment). 
Please review the Rules & Guidelines for more guidance. 
 Grand Challenges Explorations 
Dicas para Candidatos 
Lançado em 2012, a iniciativa Grand Challenges Brasil (GC Brasil) é resultado da parceria 
entre o Ministério da Saúde do Brasil, o Conselho Nacional Conselho Nacional de 
Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) e a Fundação Bill & Melinda Gates para 
lançar desafios conjuntos que incentivem e financiem  pesquisa inovadora em saúde no 
Brasil. O Conselho Nacional das Fundações de Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP) também é 
um parceiro nesta iniciativa. Aqui, anunciamos um novo programa no âmbito da iniciativa 
Grand Challenges Brasil: Grand Challenges Explorations - Brasil ("GCE-Brasil"). Os 
financiamentos do GCE, de 100.000 dólares cada, foram pensados para apoiar projetos 
em fase inicial - incluindo idéias que nunca antes foram testadas - e inovadores em uma 
ampla gama de temas. 
Processo de Seleção 
Devido ao grande número de propostas recebidas, elas passam por uma fase inicial de 
triagem para excluir aquelas que não respondam a elementos específicos da chamada ou 
que proponham idéias claramente fora do tema. Após esta fase inicial, cada proposta é 
analisada de forma independente por um painel externo de revisores com ampla 
experiência em identificar abordagens inovadoras para solucionar grandes desafios. As 
propostas também podem ser revisadas por um painel de especialistas no assunto.  
Dicas para os Candidatos 
Abaixo veja as características identificadas pelos revisores como essenciais para o 
sucesso da sua proposta: 
1. Destacar a Inovação: Na primeira parte da sua proposta, candidatos devem
incluir uma ou duas frases em negrito que descrevam a essência de sua ideia.
Essas frases devem transmitir o que há de inovador na sua proposta e como ela
se diferencia das soluções já existentes. Demonstrar experiência em áreas
d if er e nt es  do t ema d a  c h a m a d a  ( po r  e xe m p lo :  e n g e n h e ir o s
p r opon do s o lu ç õ e s  em  m e d ic in a )  tem se mostrado um bom sinal de
inovação nos projetos financiados;
2. Responder ao Tema da Chamada: O candidato deve explicar como sua ideia
atende a questão-chave apresentada na descrição do tópico. Como listamos
também as propostas que não serão financiadas, os candidatos devem ter
certeza de que a sua proposta não se enquadra numa dessas categorias;
3. Como Pretende Testar a Ideia: Candidatos devem incluir uma descrição clara,
lógica e detalhada de como a ideia proposta será testada e produzirá dados
interpretáveis e corretos. Como as propostas são analisadas ‘cegamente’ (sem
considerar sua autoria), essa descrição é um elemento chave para a credibilidade
científica do projeto;
Explicar a Viabilidade do Projeto: Candidatos devem descrever como o trabalho
pode ser executado com o orçamento de 100.000 dólares e o prazo de 18 meses
definidos pela chamada.
4.
Prezar Pela Clareza: O revisor nem sempre é um conhecedor profundo do
tema. Para maximizar a possibilidade de sua proposta ser financiada, ela deve
ser escrita em u m a  linguagem clara, sem jargões específicos de um campo
em particular. Dado o limite de duas páginas, as propostas devem ser concisas
e equilibradas na forma como apresentam os elementos descritos acima.
Para saber mais sobre ideias inovadoras que já foram contempladas com 
financiamento em edições anteriores da chamada, visite o site do Grand Challenges 
Explorations:  www.grandchallenges.org/Explorations/Pages/GrantsAwarded.aspx 
5.
