
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newton Advanced Fellowship 2018-19 Round 1 
Scheme Notes – Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Turkey 
 
PLEASE READ THESE SCHEME NOTES CAREFULLY 
Any application which is incorrectly submitted will be in ineligible for award 
 
Overview: 
This programme is offered under the Newton Fund, which is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA) 
commitment. 
 
This programme focuses on mid-career international researchers who have already established (or are in the process of 
establishing) a research group or research network and already have a research track record. The focus will be on 
developing their research strengths and providing support for more formalised training and development in 
collaboration with a UK partner. The award will support the international researcher in their own country, providing 
them with funding to establish and develop collaborations with the UK with the intention of transferring knowledge and 
research capabilities to partner countries. For Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, or Turkey the Newton Advanced Fellowship 
is for two years, and can provide salary top up, research support, training costs and travel and subsistence.  
 
Objectives of the British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship: 
The British Academy aims to recognise and support mid-career group and network leaders in partner countries to 
develop their research by linking them with some of the best research groups and networks in the UK. The primary aims 
of the Newton Advanced Fellowship programme are to: 
 
• 
Support the development of a well-trained research community who can contribute to advancing the economic 
development and social welfare of the partner country by transferring new skills and creating new knowledge. 
• 
Strengthen research excellence in partner countries by supporting promising independent, mid-career 
researchers and their research groups and networks to develop their research capabilities through training, 
collaboration, reciprocal visits and the transfer of knowledge and skills from the UK. 
• 
Establish long-term links between the best research groups and networks in partner countries and the UK to 
ensure that improvements in research capacity are sustainable in the longer term.  
 
Applicants:  
Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research experience and hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in an eligible 
university or research institute in a partner country, which must span the duration of the project. Applicants should 
have no more than 15 years of postdoctoral research experience. Collaborations should focus on a single project 
involving a researcher based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, or Turkey (“the Applicant”) and a researcher based in the 
UK (“the Co-Applicant”). For further details please refer to the ‘Eligibility details’ below. 
 
Eligible Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
Researchers in the countries listed below are eligible to apply for the Newton Advanced Fellowships in this round of the 
scheme. The British Academy has established partnerships with funding organisations in each of these countries. These 
partners are offering similar opportunities for UK researchers wishing to visit partner countries. 
 
• Brazil - In partnership with CONFAP  
• Mexico - In partnership with CONACYT 
• South Africa – In partnership with the National Research Foundation 
• Turkey – In partnership with TUBITAK 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
2 
 
In addition, Newton Mobility Grants are available for researchers applying from Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey 
and Vietnam. Please consult the relevant scheme notes for more information about the Newton Mobility Grants 
scheme.  
 
Subjects Covered: 
For Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey these awards will support researchers working in any discipline within the 
social sciences and the humanities. The remit of the British Academy funding schemes does not include primarily 
practice-based outputs such as musical composition and performance, visual practice, creative writing and film-making. 
Such outputs would be considered to fall within the British Academy’s remit only when they form part of an integrated 
project of critical or historical significance.  
 
Value: 
Please note that the Newton Advanced Fellowship is not offered on a Full Economic Costing basis and does not provide 
overhead costs to any institution involved. 
 
The following costs are eligible: 
 
• Salary top up (for the overseas Applicant only): 
 
 
 
up to £5,000 per annum 
• Travel, accommodation and subsistence costs: 
 
 
 
up to £12,000 per annum 
• Training costs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up to £5,000 per annum 
• Research costs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
up to £15,000 per annum 
• Maximum annual total from the British Academy: 
 
 
 
up to £37,000 per annum 
 
The maximum award value from the British Academy cannot exceed £74,000 for a two-year period (or £37,000 per 
year). 
 
Duration of Newton Advanced Fellowships: 
Awards are available for two years.  
 
Transfer of funds: 
The British Academy contribution to the award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both applicants 
and their employing university institutions will need to agree the most efficient arrangements to transfer the funds to 
the overseas institution. 
 
Timing: 
For Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, and Turkey, the Newton Advanced Fellowships are for a continuous period of 24 
months. Newton Advanced Fellowships must start not earlier than 01 September 2018 and not later than 30 September 
2018. 
 
Key Dates: 
 
Closing date and References/ 
Head of Department Statements deadline:   
 
Wednesday, 14 March 2018, 17:00 (GMT) 
 
UK Co-Host Institution Application Approval deadline:  
Thursday, 15 March 2018, 17:00 (GMT) 
 
 
Results available: Results of the competition will be confirmed approximately 3 months after the application closing 
date. 
 
Contact Information: 
Enquires about this scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us, please check whether 
your question is answered by these scheme notes, and read the Frequently Asked Questions on the British Academy’s 
website. If not, please email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 207 969 5288. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
3 
Applicant / Co-Applicant Eligibility: 
 
a) Overseas-based Applicant 
 
• 
The researcher based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey and /or project leader (“the Applicant”) and the 
researcher based in the UK and /or project leader (“the Co-Applicant”) must have been awarded a doctorate, or 
have equivalent research experience at the time of application. Applicants working towards a PhD, or awaiting 
the outcome of their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
 
• 
Only one individual researcher can be named as the Lead Applicant on an application to this programme, 
however, in practice we appreciate that other researchers may be involved from the Newton Fund country. 
 
• 
Researchers should have no more than 15 years of postdoctoral research experience. 
 
• 
Both nationals and non-nationals in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey can apply. Non-nationals must outline 
in the personal statement of the application form how their academic career is committed to the Newton Fund 
partner country. 
 
• 
Applicants applying from Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey must hold a full-time, permanent or fixed-term 
contract in an eligible university or research institute in the country from which they are applying. Applicants 
must demonstrate that they have sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award. Applicants 
who hold a fixed-term contract finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure confirmation through their 
Head of Department Statement that their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the award if their 
application is successful. 
 
• 
Contact between the Applicant and the Co-Applicant prior to the application is essential. This contact should lead 
to a clearly defined and mutually beneficial research project proposal. Please note that the British Academy will 
not be able to assist in locating a UK collaborator. However, you may wish to refer to the Newton Fund website 
which 
provides 
guidance 
for 
how 
to 
find 
UK 
researchers 
to 
partner 
with: 
http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/funding/application-support/. 
 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from researchers in commercial organisations. 
 
• 
Applicants must be competent in oral and written English. 
 
b) UK-based Co-Applicant 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in a publicly funded UK university or research 
institute, which includes government research institutes. Co-Applicants must demonstrate that they have 
sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award. Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract 
finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure confirmation through their Head of Department 
Statement that their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the award if their application is successful. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must be an established researcher of at least postdoctoral (or equivalent) status and must make 
all necessary practical and administrative arrangements for the duration of the Newton Advanced Fellowship. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must be based in the UK at the UK co-host organisation. 
 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from private or commercial organisations. 
 
• 
The UK-based Co-Applicant’s co-host organisation must be willing to agree to administer the grant 
 
Eligible Activities and Costs:  
 
a) Salary top-up (up to £5,000 per annum) 
 
• 
The salary top-up is only available to the Applicant. The UK Co-Applicant is not eligible for the salary top-up. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
4 
b) Travel and subsistence (up to £12,000 per annum) 
 
• 
The Newton Advanced Fellowship does not support the applicant to move to the UK for the entire duration of 
the award, but does support travel and subsistence costs for multiple visits to the UK. 
• 
This covers travel, accommodation and subsistence costs of the international Applicant travelling to the UK 
and/or the UK Co-Applicant travelling to the international partner. In addition, it can cover the travel costs to 
and from the UK of other members of the Applicant’s and Co-Applicant’s respective research group/network. 
• 
A modest amount of travel related to the Applicant attending conferences for the purposes of disseminating 
their work or conducting fieldwork in the UK or internationally can also be included. 
• 
All travel must be at economy class. 
• 
Please note: We require evidence that you have researched the costs for which you are seeking support; for 
example, you could include the cost per night of accommodation. Travel costs should be based on the most 
suitable and economical form of travel. Subsistence costs should reflect the normal rates applied at the co-host 
institution/s. 
 
c) Training costs (up to £5,000 per annum) 
 
• 
Training modules can take place either in the Applicant’s country or in the UK. Costs covered include training fees 
and costs for materials, venues, access to equipment, and consumables directly incurred through the training 
activity. 
• 
Please note: Training and career development is a critical aspect of the Newton Advanced Fellowship, and 
applicants are encouraged to give full details of their training plans; including what training will be received, how 
training will be delivered, how the Applicant or Applicant’s research network in the Newton Fund country will 
benefit, and the cost breakdown. 
 
d) Research support (up to £15,000 per annum) 
 
• 
This covers equipment, consumables, studentships (stipend and sessional fees) and salary contributions for 
research staff based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa or Turkey / assistants, organising conferences, workshops or 
seminars. 
• 
Costs for computer equipment are only eligible for the Applicant, and will remain property of the Applicant’s co-
host institution. 
• 
Studentships and salary contributions for research staff / assistants are limited to no more than £5,000 per year. 
Research staff / assistants on the grants must be based in the Newton Fund partner country. UK-based research 
staff / assistants are not eligible for the salary contribution.  
• 
The costs of conferences, workshops or seminars organised by the Applicant and the costs of venue hire, 
materials, website and printed publications are limited to no more than £7,000 per year. Costs for catering for 
events must not be excessive. Travel, subsistence and visas for participants and speakers can be included.  
• 
Travel costs for researchers from outside the UK or the Newton Fund partner country are not eligible. 
• 
Please note: Administration fees, from the employing institution of the Newton Fund applicant, or the UK Co-
Applicant, are not eligible under the Newton Advanced Fellowship. 
 
 
Payments and Reporting: 
The British Academy contribution of the award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both applicants 
and their employing institutions must agree the most efficient arrangements to transfer the relevant funds to the 
overseas institution. Payment of the first year of the agreed award is made at the beginning of the award. Payment for 
the second year is only processed upon receipt of a satisfactory interim report at the end of year 1. The Applicant must 
provide a final report at the end of year 2 via Flexi-Grant. The maximum award value for each year cannot exceed 
£37,000 (£74,000 in total for the two-year period).  
 
References: 
Three reference statements are required to be contributed to the application. The following individuals need to be listed 
in the application to provide a reference: 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
5 
One Nominated Referee 
 
• 
Under the Nominated Referees section, the Applicant needs to enter the email address of one nominated 
individual. This referee should be able to provide independent, unbiased comment on the field of research and 
on the Applicant. 
 
• 
The primary consideration is that he/she is able to comment independently and authoritatively on your 
application.  
 
• 
The referee can be based either within or outside the UK. 
 
• 
Nominated referees from the same institution as the Applicant or Co-Applicant will not be accepted. 
 
• 
The referee must not be a member on the assessment panel for this programme. 
 
• 
References must be submitted in English. If a reference is not submitted in English, it will not be accepted and 
may render the application ineligible. 
 
Two Departmental Support statements  
 
• 
Under the Departmental Support section, Applicants need to input the email addresses of two individuals, 
namely:  
 
- Head of Department at the Applicant’s employing institution. 
- Head of Department at the Co-Applicant’s UK co-host institution. 
 
• 
The supporting statements must be submitted in English. 
 
• 
If the Applicant’s Head of Department is also their current mentor an alternative referee is required, e.g. Head 
of School/Faculty, to supply the Head of Department’s statement. 
 
• 
If the Co-Applicant is also the Head of Department at the UK organisation, an alternative referee is required e.g. 
Deputy Head of Department or Head of School, to supply the Head of Department’s statement. 
 
No two references provided under the Departmental Support tab and the Nominated Referee tab can be from the same 
person. If this is the case then it may make the application ineligible, and alternative referees will need to be provided 
in accordance to the guidelines. 
 
All reference statements must be completed via Flexi-Grant before an application can be submitted and approved. This 
must be done with enough time for the application to be submitted by the closing date on Wednesday, 14 March 2018, 
17:00 (GMT). Late references will not be accepted. Applications without references cannot be submitted. It is the 
Applicant and Co-Applicant’s responsibility to ensure that all references are submitted via Flexi-Grant before the 
deadline. Please ensure to check that the individuals listed in the Departmental support and Nominated Referees 
sections are available and willing to provide references by this stipulated deadline. 
 
Assessment criteria: 
Successful applications should be strong in all respects but the assessment panel will give consideration to: 
 
• 
Whether the proposal will support training and development of the Applicant and transfer of new skills to the 
Applicant’s research group / network. 
 
• 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
 
• 
The expected benefits to Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, or Turkey in particular the extent to which the award will 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities which will contribute to advancing economic 
development and social welfare of Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, or Turkey. 
 
• 
The quality of the proposed research project and the track record of the Applicant and the UK Co-Applicant in 
the area of proposed research. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
6 
 
• 
Evidence that the Newton Advanced Fellowship will lead to a longer-term collaboration beyond the tenure of 
the award. 
 
Further Funding Opportunities with Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
There are other funding opportunities, for other countries, and from other funding bodies under the Newton Fund; 
please see www.newtonfund.ac.uk for further information. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
7 
Guidance on Completion of Application Form 
 
Using Flexi-Grant 
 
Applications can only be submitted online using the British Academy’s electronic Grant Application and Processing (Flexi-
Grant) system via https://britishacademy.flexigrant.com. Applications cannot be submitted on paper. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant homepage. Applicants should be 
aware that this application form will be considered by appropriate assessors. The application will be treated as 
confidential at all times. 
 
When completing your application on the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, it is recommended that you take note 
of the following points: 
 
• 
Personal details: When registered in the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, a user has the option to add or update 
personal information such as contact details, log-in details (including email address and password), interests, 
research and employment details, at any time. This represents a personal record of your account in the system, 
and will help to populate the contact details in any application form you complete. It is useful if this information is 
kept up to date, but it is not essential to the progress of an application. 
• 
Automatic log-out: You are strongly advised to save your work regularly to prevent accidental loss of 
information. In particular, you should be aware that if the system does not detect any activity for 2 hours it will log 
out and save the application at that time.  Please note that moving between pages within an application form will 
save the page that you are exiting but completing a field on a page is not considered an activity. It is recommended 
that you write the text for longer sections/fields in a word processor such as Word and then copy and paste into 
the relevant text box to avoid being timed out in this way. 
• 
Multiple sessions: You should not have multiple browser windows/tabs of your application open at the same time 
as this may cause information to be lost.  
• 
Word limits: When completing boxes that have a restricted length (note that it refers to words) you should note 
that if you exceed the specified amount you will not be able to save when you press the save button. You should 
type the text for the longer-length boxes in a word processor. You will then be able to check the word count and 
paste it into the British Academy GMS. You will then still have a copy of the text to return to in the word processor. 
The word limit applies to text boxes. 
• 
Plain text: If entering plain text, please avoid using symbols as some may not be accepted by the British Academy 
GMS. You should generate and view a PDF of your application to check that the application appears as you want it 
to by clicking on print application. 
• 
Uploading PDF documents: When uploading PDF documents, please add your name and a heading at the top of 
every page to show what the document is. Please avoid uploading documents containing illustrations with fine 
details or colour as this can cause problems when creating a PDF of the application. Please note we will only print 
your applications in black and white. Each PDF cannot exceed 3 Mb in size. 
• 
Email addresses: The British Academy GMS relies heavily on automatic email contact. It is essential that you 
ensure you enter accurate email addresses where requested as it may cause considerable delay in the 
submission/processing of your application if any of these are incorrect. You cannot make changes to email 
addresses after your application has been submitted for approval. 
• 
Submission: You will not be able to submit your application until you have completed each section in full. It is your 
responsibility to ensure that your application is submitted in sufficient time for it to be approved by the UK 
organisation. We strongly advise that you submit your application as early as possible to allow the designated 
approver at the UK Co-Applicant’s employing organisation at least 5 working days before the closing date to 
allow for the organisation’s administrative procedures. Please note that the approving department of the UK 
university is a central university department. Late applications will not be accepted.  
• 
Application sharing: All applications must be started by the applicant who is to be the Principal Investigator (PI) on 
the award. You can invite other contributors to join the application (e.g. Co-Applicant, Head of Department, 
Finance Office contact etc.), but in order to do so your contributor will need to be registered in the British 
Academy’s Flexi-Grant® system first. You will need to ensure you have their registered email address to invite 
them to participate in your application. You can let other British Academy GMS users view your draft application, 
in advance of submission, by providing their email address and entering the permissions you want them to have. 
They will be able to log in using their existing password and see your application and depending on permissions, 
amend your application. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
8 
• 
Application deletion: You can delete your application at any time although it is often a lot easier to just re-edit 
your existing application. We will be able to recover a deleted application for a period of 7 days after deletion. 
After this, it will be permanently removed from the system. 
• 
Application returned for editing The approver can return your application to you for further editing see 
‘Submission of Application’ below. 
• 
Guidance: In the tables below you will find in the left-hand column each question as set out in the application 
sections and in the right-hand column useful guidance on its completion. 
• 
Further clarification: If any of this advice is unclear, or you need further information, please do not hesitate to 
seek clarification from the British Academy’s Research Awards Team (contact details at the end of these notes). 
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT YOU CREATE A PDF OF YOUR COMPLETED APPLICATION (by 
clicking ‘Print Application’), AND CHECK IT THOROUGHLY, INCLUDING EMAIL ADDRESSES AND UPLOADED 
PDF FILES, BEFORE SUBMITTING IT FOR APPROVAL BY YOUR CO-HOST ORGANISATION. IT MAY NOT BE 
POSSIBLE TO RECTIFY MISTAKES IN TIME FOR THE DEADLINE. 
 
WORD LIMITS APPLY TO PLAIN TEXT ONLY. PAGE LIMITS APPLY TO PDFs ONLY. 
 
All FIELDS MARKED WITH AN ASTERISK* ARE MANDATORY. 
 
YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE MULTIPLE BROWSER WINDOWS/TABS OF YOUR APPLICATION OPEN AT THE SAME 
TIME AS THIS MAY CAUSE INFORMATION TO BE LOST. ONLY ONE USER SHOULD EDIT AN APPLICATION AT A 
TIME, OTHERWISE CHANGES MIGHT BE LOST. 
 
Completing the application form: The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application 
summary page, with each page categorised as follows: 
 
Page 1: Eligibility Criteria 
Page 2: Lead Applicant Details 
Page 3: Lead Applicant Career Summary 
Page 4 Co-Applicant Career Summary 
Page 5: Research Proposal 
Page 6: Financial Details 
Page 7: Equal Opportunities 
Page 8: Lead Applicant Referee Statement 
Page 9: Lead Applicant HOD Statement 
Page 10: Co-Applicant HOD Statement 
 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Summary table 
When your application form is complete, all sections on this summary table will be marked 
as ‘Complete’. The ‘Complete’ status will only appear when all the mandatory fields in 
that section have been completed. All mandatory fields are marked with an asterisk ‘*’. 
Only then will a ‘Submit’ button appear for you to be able to submit your application. 
 
PAGE 1: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
 
`PLEASE NOTE:  in this section you must answer “Yes” to all questions excluding Nationality in order to be eligible for 
this scheme. 
 
 
IF AN APPLICATION HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED BY THE APPROVAL DEADLINE IT WILL NOT BE ELIGIBLE FOR 
CONSIDERATION  
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
9 
HSS Subject Area * 
Your application must be relevant to the humanities and social sciences and you will need 
to confirm that your research is in a related subject area. 
PhD Confirmation * 
You must have a PhD in order to be a Lead Applicant on this programme. 
Newton Fund Eligible 
Organisation * 
You must be based at an organisation which is located in a Newton Fund eligible country 
(in this case Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Thailand or Turkey) to be eligible for this scheme. 
UK-based Co-
Applicant * 
You must have a UK-based Co-Applicant in order to be eligible for this programme. 
ODA Statement * 
It is important that you have read and understood the Official Development Assistance 
(ODA) statement; the weblink to this statement is included in the programme guidance 
notes. 
Nationality * 
Please select your nationality from the drop-down menu. Up to 3 nationalities may be 
added. Please note that this is a mandatory field. 
 
 
PAGE 2: LEAD APPLICANT DETAILS 
 
This section should be completed by the NON-UK based Applicant 
Lead Applicant Contact Details * 
Please take care to review and complete your personal details 
accurately. Errors in this section can cause difficulties in the 
processing of your application. 
 
You can update your personal details by checking ‘my account’ 
and selecting the link to ‘my contact details’ and ‘my 
organisation’ and ensuring the relevant details are up to date. 
Place of Ordinary Residence * 
Please enter the country in which your present employing 
institution is based- note this must be Brazil, Mexico, South 
Africa, Thailand or Turkey. 
UK Co-Host * 
Please select the UK University or research organisation that you 
will be collaborating with on this application. 
Names of Co-Applicant on this application * 
Please enter here the name of the academic based in a UK co-
host institution, who will be added as the Co-Applicant to the 
application. There must only be ONE Co-Applicant per 
application. 
Other participants, whose involvement does not equate to being 
a ‘Co-Applicant’, should be named in the relevant section (other 
participants) on the Proposal tab. 
Please note: your Co-Applicant will need to be registered in the 
Flexi-Grant system before you begin your application. 
 
PAGE 3: LEAD APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
Statement of qualifications and career * 
 
Please give details of up to 4 qualifications in reverse 
chronological order.   
Please also provide details of any significant career breaks (for 
example maternity or sick leave), including dates, in the 
personal statement box – see below 
 
Please include start and end dates in the ‘Qualification date’ 
field. Please include the position title and institution in the 
‘description’ field. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
10 
 
 
The depth of information you provide is up to you, but this will 
represent you under assessment and so it is worth including as 
much good evidence for your academic merit as possible. 
Present Appointment, Employing Institution, 
Present Department, Permanent Position and 
Start / Position End Date* 
Please note that the “Present Employing Institution” must be in 
Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Thailand or Turkey and you should 
be employed by this institution for the duration of the award. 
Please state when your present appointment started and is 
expected to finish. 
 
If an end date is not applicable as you are in a permanent 
position, please leave the end date blank and choose ‘yes’ in 
response to question ‘Is this position permanent?’ 
Personal Statement 
Applicants are invited to include any information relating to 
their professional career which they wish to be taken into 
account in assessing this application. This field can also be used 
to explain any career breaks, part-time contracts, or eligibility 
for Applicants who do not possess a PhD but may have 
equivalent research experience. Applicants who are not 
nationals of the countries from which they are applying should 
explain what ties they have to the country and whether these 
ties are of long duration. This is an optional field and the limit is 
150 words . 
PhD Confirmation and Award Date * 
Applicants working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of 
their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
Please therefore confirm that you have a PhD by answering yes. 
If you are an established scholar with relevant equivalent 
experience, but no doctorate, please select ‘no’ and indicate in 
the ‘personal statement’ field why you should be eligible for 
consideration. 
Please also include start and end dates in the ‘PhD Awarded 
Date’ field. 
Publications * 
Please list principal and/or relevant publications (to a maximum 
of six) in reverse chronological order. You should choose not 
only the best but also those most relevant to the application to 
support your case.  
Previous support 
Please give details of any research funding received within the 
last five years, including current funding. Please provide dates, 
title/description, source, and amount awarded.  
Please note duplicate applications for the same purpose to 
more than one British Academy scheme will not be accepted. An 
application will not be eligible for consideration if there is a 
report outstanding on any previous research grant awarded by 
the British Academy to the Applicant. 
Curriculum Vitae Upload 
Please upload your current Curriculum Vitae to the Flexi-Grant® 
GMS. 
Where did you hear about this scheme? 
Please indicate where you heard about this scheme. 
 
 
PAGES 4 CO-APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
PLEASE NOTE: In order to be eligible for this scheme you must have identified a UK Co-Applicant, who should be an 
academic based in an eligible institution located in the UK. Details of just ONE Co-Applicant should be entered for 
this scheme and you must ensure that a Co-Applicant has been added to the application and that all Co-Applicant 
tabs (Co-Applicant Personal Details and Co-Applicant Career Summary) have been completed before submitting your 
application. Any applications with blank Co-Applicant tabs will not be processed. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
11 
Specify Co-Applicant and add 
personal details and career 
summary / CV * 
Your Co-Applicant will need to have an existing account in the system before you 
are able to add them to the application. If they do not have an account, they will 
need to register themselves on Flexi-Grant before you are able to complete this 
section. 
Please click ‘Add Co-Applicant’, enter the Co-Applicant’s Flexi-Grant registered email 
address and then click ‘Next’. Confirm the user by clicking ‘Next’ then select the 
permissions you wish the sharer to have with your application and then click ‘Finish’. 
Please note that you must assign them at least some permissions in order for the Co-
Applicant function to work, and at least access to ‘Co-Applicant Personal Details’ ‘Co-
Applicant Career Summary’ and ‘Proposal’; it is up to you whether to allow them 
access to other sections. It is possible to go back each step by clicking ‘Previous’. 
Once you have clicked on the ‘Finish’ button, your Co-Applicant will be able to view 
your application and, depending on permissions, amend and submit your application.  
If you choose to do this, the sharer needs to click on My Applications once they have 
logged on to see your application. 
The Co-Applicant can then complete the Co-Applicant tabs themselves, or can 
provide you with the relevant information to do so. 
 
 
PAGE 5: RESEARCH PROPOSAL 
 
Subject Area* 
Please select the Subject Area from the drop down menu that is most relevant to this 
proposal. Please note that assessors are allocated according to the Subject selected 
by you.  
Title of Research Proposal 
Please give the title of your proposed project.  
  
 
Abstract * 
Please provide a short abstract summarising your proposed research in terms 
suitable for an informed general audience, not one specialised in your field. This is a 
mandatory field and the limit is 150 words 
Proposed Programme * 
Please give a detailed description of the research programme, including 
methodology. Applicants should be aware of the importance that assessors place on 
the viability, specificity and originality of the research programme and of its 
achievability within the timescale, which should be specified in the Plan of Action. 
This is a mandatory field and the limit is 1500 words 
Plan of Action * 
Please indicate here a clear timetable for your research programme. 
Try to be as realistic as possible, but keep in mind that research programmes will 
develop over time and this plan of action is not something that is expected to account 
for every minute and is not unchangeable. But your chances of award will be affected 
by the assessors' perception of how viable and realistic this plan is. This is a 
mandatory field and the limit is 800 words 
Planned 
research 
outputs/plans 
for 
publication/dissemination * 
Under ‘planned research outputs’, please only state the type of output expected (for 
example monograph(s), journal article(s), book chapter(s) report(s), guidance notes, 
teaching modules/resources, websites and digital resources, etc). Please give more 
detail about potential publishers etc under plans for publication/dissemination. This 
is a mandatory field and there is a limit of 300 words for planned research outputs 
and 500 words for plans for publication dissemination 
Digital Resource  
It is a condition of the award that digital resources created as a result of research 
funded by the Academy be deposited in an appropriately accessible repository. 
Applicants should ensure that any necessary technical advice is obtained before 
commencing work that involves the creation of digital resources. 
Starting Date / End date * 
To select a date in the future using the calendar feature, click on the month and year 
in between the two arrows at the top of the box. To change the year keep clicking on 
the box – a second click will produce a decade. Use the arrows to move back or 
forward in time. To change the month, a second box will appear where you can select 
the month you wish and then you can type the year you require in the box provided. 
Click on the date and the calendar will take you to the month and year you have 
selected where you can select the relevant date for display. 
Please note that awards for Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Thailand or Turkey must be 
held over a continuous period of 24 months. The start date should not be earlier than 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
12 
01 September 2018 and not later than 30 September 2018. The end date for awards 
should be no later than 30 September 2019. 
Proposed Co-Host Institution 
Please indicate here your choice of Co-Host UK institution, including the appropriate 
Faculty, Department, Research Institute or College where you propose to work 
Reason of Choice of Co-Host 
Institution * 
Please explain the reason for your choice of UK Co-Host institution (the 
university/research institute, department, Co-Applicant). 
Language Competence * 
Please state your standard of English in reading, writing and speaking. Please use the 
terms bilingual/fluent/good/moderate/basic to describe your level of English in 
reading, writing and speaking. 
Other Participants / Role of 
other participants * 
The application only allows for one Applicant and one Co-Applicant but you should 
use this section to list any other participants such as members of each group or 
network.  
Under ‘Other participants’ please give the names and positions of any other 
participants such as postdocs or PhD students. If detail are not known yet, please 
indicate numbers and status of people who might be involved. Please describe the 
contribution to the project to be made by other participants and what they are 
expected to bring or gain from the process. 
Ethical Issues * 
It is expected that most ethical issues will be covered by standard codes of practice. 
It is only necessary to indicate here in detail any non-standard issues. Please note 
the Academy’s ethics policy described in its Code of Practice. Approval to undertake 
the research must be granted by the relevant authority before any work requiring 
approval begins. 
Benefits 
to 
individuals 
/ 
institutions * 
Describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will result 
from the proposed award for the Applicant, the Co-Applicant, and the respective 
groups/networks and institutions. In particular please comment on how the award 
will benefit the career development of the Applicant and contribute to the transfer 
of knowledge and research capabilities, the added value of the collaboration, and 
any intentions for sustaining the partnership in the longer term. Maximum 550 
words. 
Benefits to Overseas Country 
* 
The benefits to the Newton Fund partner country is a critical aspect of the Newton 
Advanced Fellowships scheme. Describe any potential benefits to the Applicant’s 
home country that will result from the proposed award, especially how the research 
will contribute to advancing economic development and social welfare of the 
country to benefit the wider society. Maximum 600 words. 
Benefits to UK * 
Describe any potential secondary benefits to the UK and UK research that will result 
from the proposed award. Maximum 300 words. 
Training Programme * 
Training and career development is a critical aspect of the Newton Advanced 
Fellowships. The training programme is intended for the benefit of the overseas 
Applicant and their research network. Please provide a breakdown of, and 
justification for, the funding requested for this training programme, outlining its 
relevance and suitability. Please also include the following points: a) who will deliver 
and who will receive the training? b) what are the expected outcomes? c) what is the 
structure of the training programme (e.g. courses, training modules, specific 
activities)? 
Maximum 1000 words. 
ODA Justification Statement  
Please provide an ODA justification statement. You should consider using the 
following questions when preparing this statement: 
 
1. Which country/countries on the DAC list will directly benefit from this 
proposal and are these countries likely to continue to be ODA eligible for 
the duration of the research? 
 
2. How is your proposal directly and primarily relevant to the development 
challenges (Sustainable Development Goals) of these countries? 
 
3. How do you expect that the outcome of your proposed activities promote 
the economic development and welfare of a country or countries on the 
DAC list / What are the Pathways to Impact? 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
13 
 
 
PAGE 6: FINANCIAL DETAILS 
 
Financial Details 
 
 
Applicants should prepare accurate costings for the proposed 
expenses, and should be particularly careful not to overestimate 
the resources required.  
 
Please note that grants are cash-limited, and there is no scope 
for supplementation of an award. Projects should be fully costed 
from the outset. However, requests to carry forward 
underspend from year one will be considered. 
Justification * 
Please give a full justification for all costs. Please ensure that 
justification is broken down by budget category for years 1 and 
2. 
Applications to Other Funding Bodies 
Please provide details of other support given or applied for in 
connection with the current proposal.  
 
If you do not have any applications submitted with other funding 
bodies please enter “None” in this section. 
 
PAGE 7: EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
 
Equal Opportunities  
 
 
This section is optional; however, the Academy would greatly 
appreciate it if you can complete the details to assist us in our 
diversity monitoring.  
 
The British Academy is committed to its policy of Equal 
Opportunity in the provision of its grants and awards.  Please 
help us to monitor the effectiveness of this policy by providing 
information concerning your age, gender, ethnic origin and 
disabilities (if any).   
 
This information will be kept separately from the rest of your 
application and will not be seen by those involved in making 
decisions in the selection process. 
 
 
 
PAGE 8: LEAD APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT /PAGE 9: CO-APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT 
 
All applications for Academy grants are considered in the light of Head of Department (HoD) comments. No application 
will be considered without the required number of HoD statements, which must be received by the specified deadline. 
 
Please note that this scheme requires two Head of Department statements.  
 
No two references provided under the departmental support tab can be from the same person. If this is the case then 
it may make the application ineligible, and alternative HoD will need to be provided in accordance to the guidelines. 
 
Completion of Heads of Department tab:  
• 
To add a Departmental support (HoD) email address click on “Add HoD” link, enter the email address and 
select the “check email” button 
• 
If the HoD’s details appear, it means that they have an existing Flexi-Grant account under the email address 
entered. If so, select “contact now”, adding whatever personal message you wish which will be added to the 
automatic Flexi-Grant message, followed by “save” in order to attach the HoD to the application.  
• 
If a form appears prompting you to enter the email address again and other details, it means that they do not 
have an existing Flexi-Grant account. You will therefore need to create an account for them. To do this, enter 
their details and then select “contact now”, followed by “save” in order to attach each HoD to the application.  
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
14 
• 
If you do not select “contact now” the details of the HoD will not be attached to the form. Please note that 
we do strongly advise that all candidates select the “contact now” button when invited to do so. This will send 
a message to your HoD alerting them to the fact that they have been asked to supply a reference for you, and 
explaining the next steps needed to be taken to do so. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: It is vital that you enter the correct email address for your HoDs as upon your application being approved 
by the co-host UK organisation, emails are sent automatically from Flexi-Grant to these individuals at the email 
addresses supplied on the application form with login details, and instructions for viewing the application and 
supplying the reference through Flexi-Grant. It is advisable, before adding a HoD, to check whether your chosen HoD, 
has an account in the Flexi-Grant system, and the email address associated with this, to ensure that you do not create 
multiple email accounts for an existing user which will cause confusion. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: HoD references must be provided through the Flexi-Grant system. They cannot be provided as an 
email attachment nor sent by post in hard copy. Please bear this in mind when selecting a HoD for your application 
and ensure that you nominate a HoD with an active email address and who is happy to provide a reference through 
an online system. If, after you have submitted your application, you find that your HoD is no longer able to provide 
a reference, please contact the British Academy to nominate an alternative signatory. 
 
It is the responsibility of the Applicants to: 
• 
contact HoDs outside of the Flexi-Grant system to ensure that they have received details of their Flexi-Grant 
login and instructions for supplying their statements through Flexi-Grant. While the Flexi-Grant system is 
programmed to contact HoDs automatically, Applicants should not rely solely on the electronic system to do 
so  
• 
ensure that references are supplied through Flexi-Grant by the specified deadline 
• 
keep track of the progress of references by viewing your Application Summary, accessed by clicking “Manage” 
on the “My Applications Section”; by doing this you can view whether a reference has been completed or is 
still pending  
• 
remember that applications without Head of Department statements will not be eligible for consideration 
It is advisable that you send your HoDs a copy of Appendix 1 (found at the end of these notes). 
 
Nominated Referee * 
 
Applicants are required to nominate one referee and are 
advised to contact the referee by email outside the system to 
ensure that they are willing and available to provide the 
reference before the closing date for applications.  
Your referee should be familiar with your project and able to 
comment on its significance and feasibility, and on your abilities, 
independently and authoritatively.  
Please note that your referee should not be based at either the 
principal Applicant’s or Co-Applicant’s institution. The reference 
may be supplied by a scholar based either within or outside the 
UK, but must be written in English.  
Referees are contacted automatically by the Flexi-Grant system 
with full instructions about how to provide their reference in the 
system before the application has been submitted and 
approved by the UK co-host organisation.  
 
Departmental Support * 
The two Heads of Department should be based at the principal 
Applicant’s overseas employing institution and the Co-
Applicant’s UK employing institution (the UK co-host 
institution). 
 
The Heads of Department are asked to endorse the application 
and demonstrate institutional support for the project. The 
statements must be written in English. 
If the Applicant’s Head of Department is also their current 
mentor an alternative person will need to be found to supply the 
Head of Department’s statement is required, e.g. Head of 
School/Faculty. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
15 
If the Co-Applicant is also the Head of Department at the UK 
organisation, an alternative  to supply the Head of Department’s 
statement is required e.g. Deputy Head of Department or Head 
of School. 
 
Heads of Department are contacted automatically by the Flexi-
Grant system with full instructions about how to provide their 
reference in the system after the application has been 
submitted and approved by the UK Co-Host organisation. 
 
Please note: Applicants/Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term 
contract finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure 
confirmation through their Head of Department Statement that 
their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the 
award if their application is successful. 
 
 
 
THE ACADEMY WILL ONLY PROCESS COMPLETE, SUBMITTED AND APPROVED APPLICATIONS 
 
SUBMITTING AN APPLICATION 
 
Once you have submitted your application for approval by the UK Co-Host organisation (i.e. the organisation which 
employs your UK-based Co-Applicant), automatic emails will be sent to the UK Co-Host organisation approver asking 
them to log on to the system. You will not be able to edit your application after it has been submitted to the UK Co-Host 
organisation for approval. The approver will either: approve and submit your application, ‘send back’ your application 
and contact you to request modifications, or decline your application and contact you. 
 
If the UK Co-Host organisation approver requests modifications through the Flexi-Grant email facility, they can unlock 
your application, allowing you to edit it. They can do this by selecting ‘Send Back’. An automatic e-mail will be sent to 
you alerting you of this fact. Once you have completed and saved the requested changes, please re-submit your 
application for approval by your employing organisation. 
 
Once the UK Co-Host organisation has approved your application and submitted it to the British Academy it will not be 
possible to make any changes. 
 
It is recommended that you check that your application has been approved in time. To see the details of the UK co-host 
organisation approver and to check the status of your application, you should log into Flexi-Grant and click on the link 
to the Application Summary. 
 
Once your application has been submitted and approved, and your references have been received, you will not be 
contacted again by the British Academy until the final award decisions have been made, and you will not be required to 
do anything further in the Flexi-Grant system until that point. You can track the progress of your application by 
monitoring the Lifecycle Stages; to do this click “Manage” in the “My Applications” section. Please note that the 
eligibility stage in the lifecycle stages is an internal process and you do not need to do anything for this. PLEASE NOTE: 
You will receive notification of the outcome of your application by email outside the Flexi-Grant system. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
16 
 
 
Appendix 1 
 
Guidance for Statement Providers and Referees on Flexi-Grant 
 
If you have been detailed as a statement provider or nominated as a referee by an Applicant for a Newton Advanced 
Fellowship, this reference should be provided electronically via the British Academy’s Flexi-Grant (electronic Grant 
Application and Processing) system - https://britishacademy.flexigrant.com 
 
Once the Applicant has added you to their application you will be contacted by the system requesting your 
reference/statement of support. References/statements can be submitted before the round closing deadline. The 
deadline for the submission of references/statements is Wednesday, 14 March, 2018, 5pm, (GMT). 
 
Obtaining your log in details: 
Your login details will be dependent on the email address that the Applicant provided for you in their application. If you 
have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically been generated for you using the email address 
supplied by the Applicant. If you have forgotten your password, do not know your password or are using Flexi-Grant for 
the first time, click the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter the email address supplied by the Applicant in the 
application (Please contact the Applicant directly if you are unsure of the email address provided). An email containing 
a link to reset your password will be sent to you. Click on the link to set/reset your password. (Knowledge of previous 
passwords is not required.) Please note that the email link is time limited and will become inactive after 30 minutes of 
being requested. Therefore please only click on the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link when you are able to complete the 
process within 30 minutes. 
 
Please note that your login details can also be used in future for any other tasks and are not just relevant to this 
reference. 
 
Please note: The email address is the unique identifier on Flexi-Grant, so it is important that you always use the exact 
same email address that the Applicant has provided in the application when logging on to Flexi-Grant. If you are already 
registered on Flexi-Grant please advise the Applicant to use the appropriate email address. 
 
Information required: 
You may be asked specific questions related to the application so please log-on and look at the application 
and the reference/statement of support form before formulating your response. You may be asked about 
the Fellowship Applicant and/or the UK - based Co - applicant. You will not be expected to know either or 
both personally.  
 
Please note: If the Applicant/Co-Applicant for which you will be providing a Head of Department Statement currently 
holds a fixed-term contract that is due to finish before the end-date of the grant, your statement must include 
confirmation that their contract is due to be extended and will therefore cover the duration of the award if their 
application is successful. 
 
Word limits:  
Please note that there will be a size limit imposed on the reference; please check your statement is within the limit. The 
limits refer to words. We recommend that you first type and save the text in a word processor and check the word count 
before pasting it into Flexi-Grant. If you exceed the specified word count the system will not allow you to save and 
submit your reference.  
 
Using Flexi-Grant: 
The Flexi-Grant system automatically logs you out after periods of inactivity (typing is not considered activity). 
Therefore, we recommend that you save your work frequently or, preferably, write your reference in a word processor 
first and then copy the text into Flexi-Grant, using the following instructions: 
 
1. Go to the Flexi-Grant website: https://britishacademy.flexigrant.com 
2. Enter your email login. If you have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically been 
generated for you using the email address supplied by the Applicant. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
17 
3. Enter your password. If you have forgotten your password, or are using Flexi-Grant for the first time, click the 
‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter your email address (the same one as entered by the Applicant). An email 
containing a link to reset your password will be sent to you. Please note that the email link is time limited and 
will become inactive after 30 minutes of being requested. 
4. Click on ' ‘My Applications’' 
5. Click on ‘Provide Reference’ (if you would like to view a PDF of the application first, click ‘Print Application’, or 
you may view the application form in its original format by clicking on ‘View Application’ on screen at the top of 
the reference form). 
6. Complete all tabs of the reference/statement of support form and click on ‘Save’ at regular intervals as you 
proceed: 
o 
References/statements must be written in English. If a reference/statement is not submitted in 
English, it will not be accepted and may make the application ineligible. 
Click on ‘Save’ and then ‘Submit’ (If the ‘Submit’ button does not appear, one of the mandatory fields, indicated with *, 
has not been completed. Please check all necessary fields are complete and click ‘Save’ again – the ‘Submit’ button 
should then appear.) When you have successfully submitted your reference/statement, you should get an 
acknowledgement on the screen, in the top left hand corner. 
 
Contacting us: 
If you encounter any other problems with accessing the referee form please contact us using the details below. It is 
helpful if you can provide the name of the Fellowship Applicant or the UK Co-Applicant, or either of their email 
addresses; at least one of these will be given in the reference request email. 
 
Email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7969 5288 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms & Conditions of Award 
 
PART 1 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1. 
Part 1 of this Terms & Conditions of Award document sets out the standard terms and conditions for 
all British Academy awards. Additional terms and conditions specific to the BA Postdoctoral 
Fellowships are outlined in Part 2. The Academy’s expectations of host institutions are set out in 
Appendix 1. 
  
1.2. 
The Conditions of Award should be read in conjunction with the Award Letter, and the British 
Academy’s Code of Practice, which together set out the terms and conditions of the award. The Code 
of Practice is available on the British Academy’s website and may be updated periodically. 
 
1.3. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that the Award Holder, others supported by the Award and 
collaborators are made aware of their responsibilities and comply with these Conditions of Award 
and the Award Letter. Failure to comply with these terms and conditions will lead to termination of 
the Award and the British Academy reserves the right to recover the grant monies in part or full. For 
further information, please see Section 12: Compliance. 
  
2. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
2.1. 
Award: the award of a British Academy Newton Advanced Fellowship as specified in the Award 
Letter. 
2.2. 
Award Letter: the letter from the British Academy to the principal Award holder specifying the value 
and tenure of the grant that has been awarded. 
2.3. 
Award Holder(s): the person or persons to whom the Postdoctoral Fellowship has been awarded and 
who has responsibility for the intellectual leadership and undertaking of the research. 
2.4. 
Award Period: the period of the Award as set out in the Award Letter, commencing on the start date 
confirmed by the Host Organisation in the manner indicated by the British Academy.  
2.5. 
Data: includes computational or curated data, and data that are produced by an experimental or 
observational procedure. 
2.6. 
Financial Statement: a form that must be completed by the Host Organisation and submitted to the 
British Academy that sets out (i) the actual expenditure incurred by the Host Organisation during the 
Award period on the Award, (ii) the total amount awarded by the British Academy in respect of the 
Award, and (iii) any additional information that the British Academy requests from the Host 
Organisation. 
2.7. 
Host Organisation: the University, institution, research council or other body at which some or all of 
the research funded by the award will be carried out or which employs the Award Holder(s), and 
which takes responsibility for the management of the research project and the accountability of funds 
provided. (This is the organisation which approved the submission of the application in the Flexigrant 
system) 
2.8. 
Intellectual Property: includes all inventions, discoveries, materials, technologies, products, data, 
algorithms, software, patents, databases, copyright and general knowledge 
2.9. 
Report: a form on which the Host Organisation reports on the activities undertaken during the award 
period that must be completed by the Award Holder and submitted to the British Academy. 
2.10. Research Misconduct: includes the fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, performing, 
or reviewing research or in reporting results, misrepresentation, mismanagement or inadequate 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
19 
preservation of data and/or primary materials, making up data or results and recording and reporting 
them, such that the research is not accurately represented in the public research record. 
2.11. The British Academy: the British Academy (a charity registered in England with number 233176) 
 
3. 
USE OF GRANT 
 
3.1. 
Unless otherwise stated, all awards must be held in a research active institution. 
 
3.2. 
The Award Holder and Host Organisation must ensure that the Award is used only for the activities 
specified by the British Academy. 
  
3.3. 
The Award is to support the research project and related activities described in the application and 
against which performance will be assessed. If it is proposed to vary the project or programme in any 
significant way, prior approval must be sought from the British Academy. 
 
3.4. 
The Award may be used only for eligible items as outlined in the scheme notes, and in accordance 
with the activities originally requested in the application. If any exceptions have been approved, they 
will be specified in the Award Letter. 
 
3.5. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that sufficient resources are provided to support the activities 
described in the Award Letter. This includes adequate office and laboratory space and access to 
essential equipment and facilities. 
 
3.6. 
Expenditure cannot be vired between budget headings without prior written permission from the 
British Academy. 
 
3.7. 
Applicants must inform the British Academy of the outcomes of any other applications relating to the 
project. In cases where simultaneous applications to the British Academy and to another funding 
agency covering the same elements of a project are both successful, the applicant should decide which 
of the two awards to accept. Only if there is no duplication of expenditure under any of the budget 
heads, and no unnecessary inflation of a project, will an applicant be permitted to retain both awards 
(subsequent requests to alter the plan of research simply to allow the applicant to retain both awards 
are unlikely to be considered favourably). There is no objection to the applicant holding awards both 
from the British Academy and from another funding agency to cover separate elements of a project.  
 
3.8. 
Any items of equipment that may have been exceptionally agreed, and any research resources 
purchased with the help of a British Academy grant, must be deposited on the expiry of the grant with 
an institution (usually the recipient’s home institution, or otherwise as agreed with the British 
Academy). Such items do not become the personal property of the Award Holder. 
  
4. 
ACCEPTING THE OFFER AND PAYMENT 
 
4.1. 
The Host Organisation will be the financial administrator of the award. 
 
4.2. 
Awards are paid to the Host Organisation by electronic transfer (BACS). 
 
4.3. 
The timing of payment is at the British Academy’s discretion but every effort will be made to ensure 
that funds are released in good time. Please note that it may take up to 28 days for payment transfer to 
be completed by the British Academy’s Finance Office. The Award Holder must confirm acceptance of 
these conditions of award as part of the formal acceptance in the Flexigrant system before the grant is 
released. 
 
4.4. 
Grants are cash-limited at the value stated in the Award Letter. There is no scope for increasing the 
level of grant awarded. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
20 
4.5. 
It is the responsibility of award holders to ensure that suitable arrangements have been agreed with 
the Host Organisation and any other partner institutions, whether in the UK or overseas, for the 
administration of the Award. This includes arrangements for the transfer of funds, if applicable, 
before the award begins. The British Academy expects the funds to be administered by institutions in 
accordance with their normal procedures for managing grant income. The Host Organisation is 
responsible for accounting to the British Academy for the use of the award. 
 
5. 
REPORTING AND ACCOUNTS 
 
5.1. 
The Award Holder must fulfil the financial and non-financial reporting requirements as set by the 
British Academy. Failure to submit a report that has been deemed as satisfactory by the British 
Academy can result in the Award being suspended or withdrawn. 
 
5.2. 
The Host Organisation must ensure proper financial management of the Award and accountability for 
the use of public and charitable funds, and ensure that formal audit standards and procedures exist 
for maintaining appropriate anti-fraud and corruption controls in accordance with the Fraud Act 
(2006). Any fraud associated with the award must be notified to the British Academy immediately. 
 
5.3. 
Recipients of awards are required to submit an itemised statement of expenditure, signed by the 
responsible officer in the Host Organisation. If there is an underspend on the grant, the unspent 
amount should be refunded to the British Academy. The report will be deemed incomplete until the 
grant has been fully accounted for and any financial reconciliation made. 
 
5.4. 
Future applications for funding will not be considered unless a satisfactory report and statement of 
expenditure for the previous grant have been submitted.  
 
5.5. 
At the end of all awards, Award Holders are required to submit a final report on the work carried out 
with the aid of the British Academy grant. The final report must be submitted within two months of 
the end of the Award on the prescribed report form via the Flexigrant system. 
 
 
5.6. 
For all awards lasting two or more years, Award Holders are required to submit an interim report for 
each year on the work carried out with the aid of the British Academy grant, with the exception of the 
final year. This interim report must be submitted on the prescribed report form and will be reviewed 
by the British Academy; only after it has been deemed satisfactory will funds for any subsequent years 
be issued. For the final year, the final report must be submitted as described in 5.5. 
 
5.7. 
The Host Organisation must complete and return a reconciliation statement within 3 months of the 
end date of the Award period. The completed final reconciliation statement received by the British 
Academy represents the final statement of expenditure for the Award. The British Academy is not 
obliged to make any further payments in respect of the Award once it has received the final statement. 
The British Academy will reconcile the expenditure incurred against payments made to ensure that 
any under spend on the Award is returned. Funding cannot be vired between budget headings to 
cover the cost of an over spend, any overspend must be met by the Host Organisation. 
 
5.8. 
In the case of independent scholars, who have administered the award personally, receipts for single 
items over £100 must be provided. If there is an underspend on the grant, the unspent amount should 
be refunded to the Academy. The report will be deemed incomplete until the grant has been fully 
accounted for and any financial reconciliation made. 
 
5.9. 
The British Academy reserves the right to require the Host Organisation to complete and submit a 
statement of expenditure for a financial year at any time during the course of the Award, or to provide 
supplementary information in support of an interim or final statement of expenditure. 
 
5.10. In the event that the requested interim or final reports, or statements of expenditure are not submitted, 
the Host Organisation’s staff or affiliated / visiting researchers will not be able to apply or to be 
considered for British Academy funding until such reports or statement have been received, and are 
deemed satisfactory, with any underspend returned. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
21 
 
5.11. If there are exceptional reasons that will prevent submission of the final report within the period 
allowed, a written request may be made, before the due date passes, for the submission period to be 
extended. 
 
5.12. All payments may be recovered if the statement is not received within 6 months of the end of the 
Award. 
  
6. 
VARIATION AND TERMINATION 
 
6.1. 
The British Academy reserves the right to amend these Conditions of Award, its Code of Practice, and 
any terms and conditions in the Award Letter. Any changes to the Conditions of Award or Award 
Letter will be notified to the Award Holder in writing, and any changes to the Code of Practice will be 
notified on the British Academy’s website. 
 
6.2. 
Work must commence on the start date as specified in the application and confirmed with the offer of 
award. Formal approval will be required if it is proposed to defer the start date which must still be 
within the start period stated in the Scheme Notes. The British Academy should be notified of any 
delay. 
 
6.3. 
Under exceptional circumstances, no-cost extensions may be requested. Extensions must be requested 
before the due end date of the Award, giving sufficient reason for the request. Requests for no-cost 
extensions received after the due end date of the Award will not be considered. If an extension is 
approved, the final report should be submitted as soon as the British Academy-funded phase of 
research is completed, within the agreed timescale. 
 
6.4. 
The Award Holder or the Host Organisation must inform the British Academy without delay of any 
change to the status of the Award Holder, Co-applicant, or the Host Organisation that might affect 
their ability to comply with these Conditions of Award. This includes contracts of employment which 
must continue at least for the duration of the Award or any cessation and event or circumstance that is 
likely to affect the overall delivery of the Award. 
 
6.5. 
The Award Holder must inform the British Academy as soon as practicable of any significant 
divergence from the original aims and directions of the research project that is being funded by the 
Award, or any cessation and event or circumstance that is likely to affect the overall delivery of the 
project. 
 
6.6. 
The British Academy reserves the right to terminate or suspend the Award at any time, subject to 
reasonable notice (normally 3 months). In the event that the British Academy’s public funding is 
reduced or withdrawn by UK Government or if the British Academy should enter into administration, 
the British Academy reserves the right to terminate any awards with no liability for any further 
Fellowship or Award payments. The Host Organisation will fully indemnify the British Academy in 
respect of any claims brought against the British Academy in this regard. 
 
7. 
PUBLICATIONS 
 
7.1. 
Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy should be made in any 
publication resulting from the research, whether an article, a book, or any other form of output. One 
copy of any book should be sent to the British Academy, where it will be catalogued, and placed in the 
British Academy’s Library. The Award Holder is required to provide the British Academy with full 
bibliographical information on any other published outputs resulting from the award. 
 
7.2. 
The Award Holder is expected to follow acknowledged good practice when publishing the results of 
their research as detailed in guidelines issued by, for example, the Committee on Publication Ethics, 
the Council of Science Editors and the ARRIVE guidelines. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
22 
 
 
8. 
OTHER DISSEMINATION 
 
8.1. 
For projects whose primary purpose, or significant product, is the creation of a digital resource, data 
created as a result of the research, together with documentation, should be offered for deposit in an 
appropriately accessible repository within a reasonable time after the completion of the project. 
 
8.2. 
In cases where the principal output from the project is the creation of a digital resource, applicants 
should be aware that details of the project, and contact details of the principal applicant, may be 
passed to the relevant national Data Services providers for evaluation or contact purposes. 
 
8.3. 
The Award Holder is required to notify the British Academy of any impact resulting from their 
research. Impact can mean making a significant contribution to an academic field and/or to policy 
and practice decision-making. This could be an impact in economic terms, affecting the profits of firms 
or the revenue of government, or in terms of having an impact on less quantifiable areas such as the 
environment, public health or quality of life. 
 
8.4. 
The Award Holder must make all reasonable efforts, if so invited, to respond to requests for 
information or to attend events or activities organised by the British Academy concerning the research 
undertaken. Such events may be held after a grant has ended. 
 
8.5. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that it obtains the prior approval of the British Academy on any 
press statements associated with the Award. 
 
8.6. 
Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy should be made in any form of 
media communication, including media appearances, press releases and conferences. The contents of 
any press releases or announcements associated with the Award should be agreed by the British 
Academy first to ensure they comply with any current publicity requirements (including any 
branding guidelines). 
  
9. 
RESEARCH ETHICS, POLICIES, AND LEGAL 
 
9.1. 
The British Academy will not become an employer of the Award Holder or any other third party as a 
result of the provision of this Award. In all cases where support is provided by the Award for the 
employment of staff, the Host Organisation must issue a contract of employment which is in 
compliance with relevant laws and regulations. 
 
9.2. 
The Award Holder and Host Organisation must ensure that the Award is managed in a way which is 
compliant with the terms of the (UK) Equality Act 2010. 
 
9.3. 
The British Academy requires the research it funds to be conducted in an ethical and legal manner. 
The Host Organisation is responsible for ensuring that ethical issues relating to the research project 
are identified and brought to the attention of the relevant approval or regulatory body. Ethical 
approval to undertake the research must be granted by the relevant authority before any work 
requiring approval begins. Research undertaken outside the UK must have both UK and respective 
country ethical approvals. The Host Organisation must ensure that all legal requirements related to 
the research are met. 
 
9.4. 
The Host Organisation should meet the requirements of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity 
(2012) and subsequent amendments, and must have in place formal procedures for governing good 
research practice and for handling and reporting allegations of fraud or research misconduct. 
 
9.5. 
The Host Organisation is expected to adopt the principles, standards and good practice for the 
management of research staff set out in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
23 
Researchers (2008) and subsequent amendments. Research staff should be appointed on terms that are 
no less favourable than those of comparable posts in the Host Organisation. 
 
9.6. 
The Host Organisation is responsible for ensuring that a safe working environment is provided for all 
individuals associated with a research project, and must meet all regulatory and legislative 
requirements as recommended by the Health and Safety Executive, and will include appropriate care 
where researchers are working off-site. 
 
9.7. 
It is the responsibility of the Host Organisation and Award Holder to ensure that appropriate 
insurance is obtained for any individual employed on the Award, including students, who intend to 
undertake Overseas Travel, Fieldwork, Secondments or Sabbaticals during the Award period. 
 
9.8. 
The Award Holder is expected to comply with the Host Organisation guidelines on overseas travel 
and safety in fieldwork, particularly for high risk countries. The British Academy will not be held 
liable for the health, safety and security of award holders or individuals employed on an award. 
 
9.9. 
The Host Organisation and the Award Holder must ensure that research involving the use of animals 
falls within the regulations laid down in the UK Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 and 
subsequent amendments. Any element of research funded by the Award that is conducted outside the 
UK must, as a minimum standard, be conducted in accordance with the principles of UK legislation. 
 
9.10. In the case of research involving the use of animals, the Award Holder must inform the British 
Academy that animals will be used in the research and provide the following details, the number of 
animals, the species and procedures involving animals. The Award Holder must also inform the 
British Academy as soon as possible of any significant increase to the number of animals used or a 
change in the species from that which was originally supported by the Award. 
 
9.11. The British Academy endorses the principle of the NC3Rs (replace, refine and reduce) which means 
that every effort must be made to replace the use of live animals with non-animal alternatives; to 
reduce the number of animals used in research; and refine procedures so that the degree of suffering 
for animals is kept to an absolute minimum. 
 
9.12. The British Academy accepts no responsibility for costs or liabilities arising from the research funded 
by the Award, other than those set out in these Conditions of Award, or otherwise agreed in writing. 
 
9.13. The Host Organisation, any Award Holder or any other person working on the Award (including but 
not limited to employees, students, visiting fellows and subcontractors) will indemnify the British 
Academy against any claims for compensation or against any other claims (whether under any statute 
or regulation or at common law) for which the Host Organisation may be liable as an employer or 
otherwise or for which any other person working on the Award may be liable. 
 
9.14. These Conditions of Award will be governed by the laws of England and Wales. All matters relating 
to the terms and conditions will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of England and 
Wales. 
 
9.15. If any provision of these terms and conditions is found by a court or other legitimate body to be 
illegal, invalid or unreasonable, it will not affect the remaining terms and conditions which will 
continue in force. 
 
10. 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
10.1. Unless stated otherwise, the ownership of British Academy-funded intellectual property (IP), and 
responsibility for its identification, protection, management and exploitation, rests with the Host 
Organisation. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
24 
10.2. It is the responsibility of the Host Organisation, and all engaged in the research, to make every effort 
to ensure that any potentially valuable results obtained in the course of the research are exploited, 
whether protected by IP rights or not, and used to the benefit of society and the economy. 
 
10.3. Where the Award is associated with more than one research organisation and/or project partner, a 
formal collaborative agreement must be established, which sets out the contributions and ownership 
rights of the organisations and individuals involved with regards to intellectual property and 
exploitation. It is the responsibility of the Host Organisation to put such an agreement in place before 
the Award commences. The terms of the collaborative agreement must not conflict with the British 
Academy’s Conditions of Award. 
 
10.4. The collaborative agreement must set out that the Host Organisation(s) is not restricted in its future 
research capability, that all applications of the intellectual property are developed in a timely manner 
and that the substantive results of the research are published within an agreed and reasonable period. 
 
11. 
DATA PROTECTION 
 
11.1. The British Academy is registered under the Data Protection Act 1998 (Registration Number: 
K4009399) and adheres to the Data Protection Principles. 
 
11.2. Successful applicants should be aware that the information they provide on the application form and 
in subsequent reports will be used by the British Academy for processing the application, making any 
consequential award, for the payment, monitoring and review of the award, and for general British 
Academy business. This information may be shared with relevant funding partners, including but not 
limited to the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, 
and the Department for International Development. 
 
11.3. Information will also be shared with relevant officers in the Host Organisation for the award 
procedures to be followed. 
 
11.4. Details of award holders (including name, institution, project details and amount of award) will be 
used to compile published lists of award holders which will be made available on the Internet, and to 
produce statistical and historical information on British Academy awards. 
 
11.5. Queries submitted under the terms of the Data Protection Act about the processing of personal data 
should be addressed to the British Academy's Data Protection Officer. Submitting the online 
application form constitutes the applicant's agreement to all terms, conditions, and notices contained 
in the Scheme Notes. 
 
11.6. Application forms will be retained for ten years in the case of successful applications, and may be 
consulted by the British Academy in the event of future applications being submitted. 
 
12. 
COMPLIANCE 
 
12.1. The British Academy reserves the right upon reasonable notice to inspect the award at any time and to 
require further information to be supplied as seen fit. Such further information may include but is not 
limited to financial records and financial procedures associated with the Award, or to appoint any 
other body or individual for the purpose of such inspection. 
 
12.2. Persistent failure to comply with the conditions of award will result in the British Academy writing to 
the Vice-Chancellor or equivalent senior official of the Host Organisation and lead to the possibility of 
sanctions. 
 
12.3. The sanction for non-compliance with the conditions of award is penalty-listing: that is, to disbar, sine 
die, the scholar concerned from applying to the British Academy under any of its grant-giving 
schemes; and to disbar, for a period of two years, all members of that institution from applying to the 
British Academy under any of its grant-giving schemes. 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
25 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
26 
PART 2 
 
SCHEME-SPECIFIC CONDITIONS 
 
BRITISH ACADEMY NEWTON ADVANCED FELLOWSHIPS 
 
These Conditions of Award set out the standard terms and conditions for the British Academy Newton 
Advanced Fellowships. These awards are funded by the Newton Fund, which is part of the UK's Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) commitment. The Conditions of Award should be read in conjunction with 
the Award Letter, and the British Academy’s Code of Practice, which together set out the terms and 
conditions of the Award. The Code of Practice is available on the British Academy’s website and may be 
updated periodically. 
 
The UK Host Organisation must ensure that the Award Holder, others supported by the Award and 
collaborators are made aware of their responsibilities and comply with these Conditions of Award and the 
Award Letter. Failure to comply with these terms and conditions will lead to termination of the Award and 
the British Academy reserves the right to recover the grant monies in part or full. 
 
1. 
Use of Grant 
 
1.1. The Newton Fund is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA). Its aim is to develop 
science and innovation partnerships that promote the economic development and welfare of 
collaborating countries. The Award Holder must ensure the activity that is undertaken as part of this 
grant is compliant with ODA rules and regulations as set out under the Newton Fund programme. 
 
1.2. The Award must be used for the purposes of training overseas researchers and developing Newton 
Fund Country research capacity through collaboration. Funding may not be used to support the 
training of UK based researchers. 
 
1.3. The Award Holder is expected to comply with the Host Organisation guidelines on Overseas Travel 
and Safety in Fieldwork, particularly for high risk countries. The British Academy will not be held liable 
for the health, safety and security of award holders or individuals employed on an award. 
 
1.4. The Award may be used only for items eligible under the Newton Advanced Fellowships, and in 
accordance with the activities originally requested in the application. If any exceptions have been 
approved, they will be specified in the Award Letter. 
 
2. 
Accepting the Offer and Payment of Grant 
 
2.1. The Overseas Award Holder will be the Principal applicant and the award will be administered by the 
UK Host Organisation (that is the UK-based Co-applicant’s institution). 
 
2.2. The UK Host Organisation must ensure proper financial management of the Award and accountability 
for the use of public and charitable funds, and ensure that formal audit standards and procedures exist 
for maintaining appropriate anti-fraud and corruption controls in accordance with the Fraud Act (2006). 
Any fraud associated with the award must be notified to the British Academy immediately. 
 
3. Publications 
 
3.1. Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy and the Newton Fund should be 
made in any publication resulting from the research, whether an article, a book, or any other form of 
output. One copy of any book should be sent to the British Academy, where it will be catalogued, and 
placed in the British Academy’s Library. The Award Holder is required to provide the British Academy 
with full bibliographical information on any other published outputs resulting from the award. 
 
  
 
Newton Advanced Fellowships: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey) 
 
27 
4. Other Dissemination 
 
4.1. Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy and the Newton Fund should be 
made in any form of media communication, including media appearances, press releases and 
conferences. The contents of any press releases or announcements associated with the Award should be 
agreed by the British Academy first to ensure they comply with any current publicity requirements 
(including any branding guidelines).  
 
5. 
Variation and Termination 
 
5.1. It is not normally possible to transfer Awards made under the Newton Advanced Fellowships to 
another institution. The British Academy should be informed in writing immediately if the Award. 
Holder intends to move to another institution during the period of the Award. In exceptional 
circumstances, the British Academy would authorise any unspent funds to be transferred to a new host 
institution in the UK. In such exceptional circumstances, an interim statement of expenditure would 
need to be submitted to the British Academy by the relinquishing UK Host Organisation, and the new 
UK Host Organisation would be required to confirm its acceptance of the grant and conditions of 
award. 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Newton Mobility Grants 2018-19 Round 1 
Scheme Notes – Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and 
Vietnam 
 
PLEASE READ THESE SCHEME NOTES CAREFULLY 
Any application which is incorrectly submitted will be in ineligible for award 
 
 
Overview: 
Newton Mobility Grants are offered under the Newton Fund, which is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance 
(ODA) commitment.  
 
These grants provide support for international researchers based in a country covered by the Newton Fund to establish 
and develop collaboration with UK researchers around a specific jointly defined research project. These one-year awards 
are particularly suited to initiate new collaborative partnerships, between scholars who have not previously worked 
together, or new initiatives between scholars who have collaborated in the past. The awards will also look to initiate 
the development of longer-term links between researchers from Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam, and 
researchers from the UK. Award-holders may subsequently wish to consider applying for other Newton Fund 
programmes. 
 
Awards might include a range of related activities, although the main purpose of the funding is to cover travel and 
maintenance costs and so mobility (in the form of visits and exchanges, etc.) should form an integral part of proposals. 
Visits and exchanges in both directions can be included. Please note, however, that visits by and exchanges of the UK 
researcher to the partner country must be explicitly for the purposes of providing training and transferring knowledge 
and skills to help strengthen the research capacity of the partner country. Partnerships involving scholars in the early 
stages in their career will be looked on favourably. 
 
Objectives of the British Academy Newton Mobility Grants: 
The primary aims of the Newton Mobility Grants are to:  
• 
Strengthen the research capacity/capability of, and contribute to promoting economic development and social 
welfare in, the Newton Fund Partner country - by facilitating training and skill transfer from the UK to partner 
countries. 
• 
Support excellent research - by linking the best researchers in the UK with the best researchers in partner 
countries and providing support for collaborative research. 
• 
Establish long term research links - between both partners to ensure sustainable research capacity in partner 
countries and benefit to the UK research community in the longer term. 
 
Applicants:  
An Applicant based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam, and a Co-Applicant based in the UK are required 
for this scheme and each must have input into the application. Both Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research 
experience and hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research institute, which must span 
the duration of the project. Collaborations should focus on a single jointly defined research project involving (or led by) 
the two Applicants. Researchers in more than one institution in the Newton Fund partner country and the UK can be 
involved in the project. For further details please refer to the ‘Applicant/Co-Applicant Eligibility Details’ section below. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
2 
Eligible Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
Researchers in the countries listed below are eligible to apply for the Newton Mobility Grants in this round of the 
scheme. The British Academy has established partnerships with funding organisations in each of these countries. These 
partners are offering similar opportunities for UK researchers wishing to visit partner countries. 
 
• Brazil - In partnership with CONFAP  
• Mexico - In partnership with CONACYT 
• South Africa – In partnership with the National Research Foundation 
• Turkey – In partnership with TUBITAK 
• Vietnam – In partnership with NAFOSTED 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Newton Advanced Fellowships are available for researchers applying from Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and 
Turkey. Please consult the relevant scheme notes for more information about the Newton Advanced Fellowship scheme: 
http://www.britac.ac.uk/newton-advanced-fellowships.  
 
 
Subjects Covered: 
These awards will support researchers working in any discipline within the social sciences and humanities. The remit of 
the British Academy funding schemes does not include primarily practice-based outputs such as in musical composition 
and performance, visual practice, creative writing and film-making. Such outputs would be considered to fall within the 
British Academy’s remit only when they form part of an integrated project of critical or historical significance.  
 
Value: 
Grants for Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam, are offered up to a maximum of £10,000 for one year. For 
more details see ‘Eligible Activities and Costs’ below. 
 
Duration of Newton Mobility Grants: 
Awards are available for one year. 
 
Transfer of funds: 
The British Academy contribution to the award will be paid to the UK institution. Both Applicants and their employing 
institutions will need to agree the most efficient arrangements to transfer the funds to the overseas institution. 
 
Timing: 
Awards must not start earlier than 01 September 2018 and not later than 30 September 2018. The awards are for a 
continuous period of one year. 
 
Key Dates: 
Application deadline: 
 
 
 
Wednesday, 14th March 2018, 17:00 (GMT) 
(including two HoD statements of support)  
 
Institutional Approval:  
 
 
 
Thursday 15th March 2018, 17:00 (GMT) 
 
 
 
 
Results available: Results of the competition will be confirmed approximately 3 months after the application closing 
date. 
 
ODA Statement: 
Please read the ODA statement detailed at the following weblink before applying to this programme: 
 
http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/  
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
3 
Contact Information: 
Enquires about this scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us, please check whether 
your question is answered by these scheme notes, and read the Frequently Asked Questions on the British Academy’s 
website. If not, please email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk or call +44 (0) 207 969 5288. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
4 
Applicant/Co-Applicant Eligibility: 
 
a) Overseas-based Applicant  
 
(must be working at an organisation based in a Newton Fund country being supported by this programme) 
 
• 
The researcher based in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam (“the Applicant”) must have been 
awarded a doctorate, or have equivalent research experience at the time of application. Applicants working 
towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
 
• 
Early career researchers (defined as 0-7 years post-doctoral or equivalent experience) are typically invited to be 
the Lead Applicant on applications for this programme, however, academics who are at more developed career 
stage are also allowed to be the Lead Applicant. 
 
• 
Only one individual researcher can be named as the Lead Applicant on an application to this programme, 
however, in practice we appreciate that other researchers may be involved from the Newton Fund country. 
 
• 
Both nationals and non-nationals in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam apply. Non-nationals must 
outline in the personal statement of the application form how their academic career is committed to the Newton 
Fund partner country (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam). If you hold dual-nationality you are also 
eligible to apply if you are a researcher in a Brazilian, Mexican, South African, Turkish and Vietnamese research 
organisation. 
 
• 
The Applicant must hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research institute in Brazil, 
Mexico, South Africa, Turkey, or Vietnam. Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract finishing before the end-
date of the grant must secure confirmation through their Head of Department Statement that their contract will 
be extended to cover the duration of the award if their application is successful.   
 
• 
Contact between the overseas Applicant and the Co-Applicant, is essential prior to the application. This contact 
should lead to a clearly defined and mutually beneficial research project proposal. Please note that the British 
Academy will not be able to assist in locating a UK collaborator. However, you may wish to refer to the Newton 
Fund website which provides guidance for how to find UK researchers to partner with: 
http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/funding/application-support/.  
 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from researchers in commercial organisations. 
 
• 
Applicants must be competent in oral and written English. 
 
• 
The Applicant’s employing organisation must be willing to administer the grant. 
 
b) UK-based Co-Applicant 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must have been awarded a doctorate or have equivalent research experience at the time of 
application. UK Co-Applicant researchers working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of their 
viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must hold a permanent or fixed-term contract in a publicly funded UK university or research 
institute, which includes government research institutes. Co-Applicants must demonstrate that they have 
sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award. Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract 
finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure confirmation through their Head of Department 
Statement that their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the award if their application is successful. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant must be a UK-based Academic but there is no limit of career experience with established 
researchers eligible to hold this position. 
 
• 
Only one individual researcher can be named as the Co-Applicant on an application to this programme, however, 
in practice we appreciate that other researchers may be involved on the UK side. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
5 
• 
Applications cannot be accepted from private or commercial organisations. 
 
• 
The Co-Applicant’s UK co-host organisation must be willing to agree to administer the grant. 
 
Important: It is not possible to be an Applicant on more than one application to this scheme. 
 
Eligible Activities and Costs: 
 
a) 
Activities 
 
• 
The awards are suited to initiate new collaborative partnerships where, for example, a research meeting or 
visit(s) are held in order to build collaborations and develop research questions and hypotheses. 
• 
The application should make clear how the proposal intends to strengthen the research capacity/capability of, 
and contribute to promoting economic development and social welfare in Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey 
or Vietnam. 
• 
Awards might include a range of related activities, but mobility (in the form of visits and exchanges, etc.) should 
form an integral part of proposals. 
• 
The main purpose of the funding is to cover travel and maintenance (accommodation and subsistence) costs, 
although costs related to other eligible activities will be considered. 
• 
Visits and exchanges in both directions can be included. Please note, however, that visits by and exchanges of 
the Co-Applicant to the partner country must be explicitly for the purposes of providing training and 
transferring knowledge and skills to help strengthen the research capacity of the partner country. For 
example, offering short intensive postdoctoral courses related to the research theme in the partner country, 
supplying teaching elements to courses and developing joint curricula, etc. 
• 
Workshops and seminars can form part of the programme, and involve both staff and postgraduate students.  
• 
Awards including a training element and involving scholars in the early stages in their career will be looked on 
favourably. However, please note that funding is not available to support international travel for 
postgraduate students. 
 
b) 
Costs:  
 
Grants are offered up to a maximum of £10,000 for one year. 
 
The following costs are eligible: 
 
• 
International and local travel between the UK and Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam.  
• 
Maintenance (accommodation and subsistence) costs incurred during visits.  
• 
Please note: We require evidence that you have researched the costs for which you are seeking support; for 
example, you could include the cost per night of accommodation. Travel costs should be based on the most 
suitable and economical form of travel. Subsistence costs should reflect the normal rates applied at the co-
host institution/s. 
• 
Visa charges.  
• 
Organisation of workshops and seminars to advance the research as part of the approved programme of work. 
• 
Consumables (i.e. purchase of datasets, photocopies, microfilms, etc., and any other minor items that will be 
used up during the course of the project). 
• 
Specialist software (excluding commonly available office packages). 
• 
Costs for language competence building where this is essential to the programme of work and at a modest 
level. 
• 
Postage and printing for visitors. 
 
The following costs are ineligible: 
 
• 
Overhead costs to the institutions concerned. Please note the funding provided by this scheme is not calculated 
on the basis of full economic costs.  
• 
Costs for travel to or from a third country. 
• 
Permanent resources and equipment or any elements that should properly be ascribed to departmental or 
university overheads. 
• 
Computer hardware, including laptops, electronic notebooks, digital cameras etc. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
6 
• 
Books and publications. 
• 
Postgraduate students travel between the UK and overseas. 
• 
Payment as contributions towards or in lieu of salaries or staff costs (including research assistants).  
• 
Replacement teaching costs. 
• 
Personal maintenance at home. 
 
Payments and Reporting: 
The British Academy contribution of the award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both applicants 
and their employing university institutions will need to agree the most efficient arrangements to transfer the relevant 
funds to the overseas institution. The Applicant must provide a final report at the end of the award via the Flexi-Grant 
system. 
  
References:  
Two reference statements of departmental support are required for the application.  
 
Departmental Support 
Under the Departmental Support section, Applicants need to input the email addresses of the following two individuals: 
 
• 
Head of Department at the Co-Applicant’s UK co-host institution. 
• 
Head of Department at the Applicant’s overseas employing institution. 
 
The Heads of Department are asked to endorse the application and confirm institutional support for the project. 
Applicants will need institutional support because visits, running workshops, offering components of taught courses etc, 
involve institutional resources including office space, meeting rooms, and access to facilities amongst other things.  
 
Please note: Applicants and Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term contract finishing before the end-date of the grant 
must secure confirmation through their Head of Department Statement that their contract will be extended to cover 
the duration of the award if their application is successful. 
 
The supporting statements must be submitted in English; if this presents a difficulty please contact the British Academy 
at the earliest opportunity using the contact details at the end of these notes. 
 
If either the Applicant or the Co-Applicant is the Head of Department, an alternative person will have to be found to 
supply the Head of Department’s statement is required e.g. Head of School/Faculty. 
 
The reference statements must be completed via Flexi-Grant by the application deadline is on Wednesday 14 March 
2018, 17:00 (GMT). Late references will not be accepted. Any application with missing statements will be rejected. It 
is the Applicant and Co-Applicant’s responsibility to ensure that the statements are submitted via Flexi-Grant by the 
application deadline. Before submitting your application, check that the individuals listed in the HOD statement sections 
are available and willing to provide references by the stated deadline. 
 
Once an application has been submitted, Applicants are able to check whether references have been submitted by 
viewing their application on Flexi-Grant. 
 
Assessment criteria: 
Successful applications should be strong in all respects but the assessment panel will give consideration to: 
 
• 
Whether the proposal will support training and development of the Applicant and transfer of new skills to the 
Applicant’s research group / network. 
 
• 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
 
• 
The expected benefits to Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam, in particular the extent to which the 
award will contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities which will contribute to advancing 
economic development and social welfare of Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam. 
 
• 
The quality of the proposed research project and the track record of the Applicant and the Co-Applicant in the 
area of proposed research. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
7 
 
• 
Evidence that the Newton Mobility Grant will lead to a longer - term collaboration beyond the tenure of the 
award. 
 
Further Funding Opportunities with Newton Fund Partner Countries: 
There are other funding opportunities, for other countries, and from other funding bodies under the Newton Fund; 
please see www.newtonfund.ac.uk for further information. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
8 
Guidance on Completion of Application Form 
 
Using Flexi-Grant 
 
Applications can only be submitted online using the British Academy’s electronic Grant Application and Processing (Flexi-
Grant) system via https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com. Applications cannot be submitted on paper. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant homepage. Applicants should be 
aware that this application form will be considered by appropriate assessors. The application will be treated as 
confidential at all times. 
 
When completing your application on the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, it is recommended that you take note 
of the following points: 
 
• 
Personal details: When registered in the British Academy Flexi-Grant® GMS, a user has the option to add or update 
personal information such as contact details, log-in details (including email address and password), interests, 
research and employment details, at any time. This represents a personal record of your account in the system, 
and will help to populate the contact details in any application form you complete. It is useful if this information is 
kept up to date, but it is not essential to the progress of an application. 
• 
Automatic log-out: You are strongly advised to save your work regularly to prevent accidental loss of 
information. In particular, you should be aware that if the system does not detect any activity for 2 hours it will log 
out and save the application at that time.  Please note that moving between pages within an application form will 
save the page that you are exiting but completing a field on a page is not considered an activity. It is recommended 
that you write the text for longer sections/fields in a word processor such as Word and then copy and paste into 
the relevant text box to avoid being timed out in this way. 
• 
Multiple sessions: You should not have multiple browser windows/tabs of your application open at the same time 
as this may cause information to be lost.  
• 
Word limits: When completing boxes that have a restricted length (note that it refers to words) you should note 
that if you exceed the specified amount you will not be able to save when you press the save button. You should 
type the text for the longer-length boxes in a word processor. You will then be able to check the word count and 
paste it into the British Academy GMS. You will then still have a copy of the text to return to in the word processor. 
The word limit applies to text boxes. 
• 
Plain text: If entering plain text, please avoid using symbols as some may not be accepted by the British Academy 
GMS. You should generate and view a PDF of your application to check that the application appears as you want it 
to by clicking on print application. 
• 
Uploading PDF documents: When uploading PDF documents, please add your name and a heading at the top of 
every page to show what the document is. Please avoid uploading documents containing illustrations with fine 
details or colour as this can cause problems when creating a PDF of the application. Please note we will only print 
your applications in black and white. Each PDF cannot exceed 3 Mb in size. 
• 
Email addresses: The British Academy GMS relies heavily on automatic email contact. It is essential that you 
ensure you enter accurate email addresses where requested as it may cause considerable delay in the 
submission/processing of your application if any of these are incorrect. You cannot make changes to email 
addresses after your application has been submitted for approval. 
• 
Submission: You will not be able to submit your application until you have completed each section in full. It is your 
responsibility to ensure that your application is submitted in sufficient time for it to be approved by the UK 
organisation. We strongly advise that you submit your application as early as possible to allow enough time for 
your HoD to provide their reference in the system and to allow the designated approver at the UK Co-
Applicant’s employing organisation at least 5 working days before the closing date to allow for the 
organisation’s administrative procedures. Please note that the approving department of the UK university is a 
central university department. Late applications will not be accepted.  
• 
Application sharing: All applications must be started by the Applicant who is to be the Principal Investigator (PI) on 
the award. You can invite other contributors to join the application (e.g. Co-Applicant, Head of Department, 
Finance Office contact etc.), but in order to do so your contributor will need to be registered in the British 
Academy’s Flexi-Grant® system first. You will need to ensure you have their registered email address to invite 
them to participate in your application. You can let other British Academy GMS users view your draft application, 
in advance of submission, by providing their email address and entering the permissions you want them to have. 
They will be able to log in using their existing password and see your application and depending on permissions, 
amend your application. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
9 
• 
Application deletion: You can delete your application at any time although it is often a lot easier to just re-edit 
your existing application. We will be able to recover a deleted application for a period of 7 days after deletion. 
After this, it will be permanently removed from the system. 
• 
Application returned for editing The approver can return your application to you for further editing see 
‘Submission of Application’ below. 
• 
Guidance: In the tables below you will find in the left-hand column each question as set out in the application 
sections and in the right-hand column useful guidance on its completion. 
• 
Further clarification: If any of this advice is unclear, or you need further information, please do not hesitate to 
seek clarification from the British Academy’s Research Awards Team (contact details at the end of these notes). 
 
PLEASE NOTE THAT IT IS ESSENTIAL THAT YOU CREATE A PDF OF YOUR COMPLETED APPLICATION (by 
clicking ‘Print Application’), AND CHECK IT THOROUGHLY, INCLUDING EMAIL ADDRESSES AND UPLOADED 
PDF FILES, BEFORE SUBMITTING IT FOR APPROVAL BY YOUR CO-HOST ORGANISATION. IT MAY NOT BE 
POSSIBLE TO RECTIFY MISTAKES IN TIME FOR THE DEADLINE. 
 
WORD LIMITS APPLY TO PLAIN TEXT ONLY. PAGE LIMITS APPLY TO PDFs ONLY. 
 
All FIELDS MARKED WITH AN ASTERISK* ARE MANDATORY. 
 
YOU SHOULD NOT HAVE MULTIPLE BROWSER WINDOWS/TABS OF YOUR APPLICATION OPEN AT THE SAME 
TIME AS THIS MAY CAUSE INFORMATION TO BE LOST. ONLY ONE USER SHOULD EDIT AN APPLICATION AT A 
TIME, OTHERWISE CHANGES MIGHT BE LOST. 
 
Completing the application form: The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application 
summary page, with each page categorised as follows: 
 
Page 1: Eligibility Criteria 
Page 2: Lead Applicant Details 
Page 3: Lead Applicant Career Summary 
Page 4 Co-Applicant Career Summary 
Page 5: Research Proposal 
Page 6: Financial Details 
Page 7: Equal Opportunities 
Page 8: Lead Applicant HOD Statement 
Page 9: Co-Applicant HOD Statement 
 
SUMMARY 
 
Summary table 
When your application form is complete, all sections on this summary table will be marked 
as ‘Complete’. The ‘Complete’ status will only appear when all the mandatory fields in 
that section have been completed. All mandatory fields are marked with an asterisk ‘*’. 
Only then will a ‘Submit’ button appear for you to be able to submit your application. 
 
PAGE 1: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA 
 
`PLEASE NOTE:  in this section you must answer “Yes” to all questions excluding Nationality in order to be eligible for 
this scheme. 
 
 
IF AN APPLICATION HAS NOT BEEN APPROVED BY THE APPROVAL DEADLINE IT WILL NOT BE ELIGIBLE FOR 
CONSIDERATION  
 
HSS Subject Area * 
Your application must be relevant to the humanities and social sciences and you will need 
to confirm that your research is in a related subject area. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
10 
PhD Confirmation * 
You must have a PhD in order to be a Lead Applicant on this programme. 
Newton Fund Eligible 
Organisation * 
You must be based at an organisation which is located in a Newton Fund eligible country 
(in this case Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam) to be eligible for this scheme. 
UK-based Co-
Applicant * 
You must have a UK-based Co-Applicant in order to be eligible for this programme. 
ODA Statement * 
It is important that you have read and understood the Official Development Assistance 
(ODA) statement; the weblink to this statement is included in the programme guidance 
notes. 
Nationality * 
Please select your nationality from the drop-down menu. Up to 3 nationalities may be 
added. Please note that this is a mandatory field. 
 
 
PAGE 2: LEAD APPLICANT DETAILS 
 
This section should be completed by the NON-UK based Applicant 
Lead Applicant Contact Details * 
Please take care to review and complete your personal details 
accurately. Errors in this section can cause difficulties in the 
processing of your application. 
 
You can update your personal details by checking ‘my account’ 
and selecting the link to ‘my contact details’ and ‘my 
organisation’ and ensuring the relevant details are up to date. 
Place of Ordinary Residence * 
Please enter the country in which your present employing 
institution is based- note this must be Brazil, Mexico, South 
Africa, Turkey or Vietnam. 
UK Co-Host * 
Please select the UK University or research organisation that you 
will be collaborating with on this application. 
Names of Co-Applicant on this application * 
Please enter here the name of the academic based in a UK co-
host institution, who will be added as the Co-Applicant to the 
application. There must only be ONE Co-Applicant per 
application. 
Other participants, whose involvement does not equate to being 
a ‘Co-Applicant’, should be named in the relevant section (other 
participants) on the Proposal tab. 
Please note: your Co-Applicant will need to be registered in the 
Flexi-Grant system before you begin your application. 
 
PAGE 3: LEAD APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
Statement of qualifications and career * 
 
Please give details of up to 4 qualifications in reverse 
chronological order.   
Please also provide details of any significant career breaks (for 
example maternity or sick leave), including dates, in the 
personal statement box – see below 
 
Please include start and end dates in the ‘Qualification date’ 
field. Please include the position title and institution in the 
‘description’ field. 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
11 
The depth of information you provide is up to you, but this will 
represent you under assessment and so it is worth including as 
much good evidence for your academic merit as possible. 
Present Appointment, Employing Institution, 
Present Department, Permanent Position and 
Start / Position End Date* 
Please note that the “Present Employing Institution” must be in 
Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam and you should 
be employed by this institution for the duration of the award. 
Please state when your present appointment started and is 
expected to finish. 
 
 If an end date is not applicable as you are in a permanent 
position, please leave the end date blank and choose ‘yes’ in 
response to question ‘Is this position permanent?’ 
Personal Statement 
Applicants are invited to include any information relating to 
their professional career which they wish to be taken into 
account in assessing this application. This field can also be used 
to explain any career breaks, part-time contracts, or eligibility 
for Applicants who do not possess a PhD but may have 
equivalent research experience. Applicants who are not 
nationals of the countries from which they are applying should 
explain what ties they have to the country and whether these 
ties are of long duration. This is an optional field and the limit is 
150 words including spaces. 
PhD Confirmation and Award Date * 
Applicants working towards a PhD, or awaiting the outcome of 
their viva/submission of corrections are not eligible to apply. 
Please therefore confirm that you have a PhD by answering yes. 
If you are an established scholar with relevant equivalent 
experience, but no doctorate, please select ‘no’ and indicate in 
the ‘personal statement’ field why you should be eligible for 
consideration. 
Please also include start and end dates in the ‘PhD Awarded 
Date’ field. 
Publications * 
Please list principal and/or relevant publications (to a maximum 
of six) in reverse chronological order. You should choose not 
only the best but also those most relevant to the application to 
support your case.  
Previous support 
Please give details of any research funding received within the 
last five years, including current funding. Please provide dates, 
title/description, source, and amount awarded.  
Please note duplicate applications for the same purpose to 
more than one British Academy scheme will not be accepted. An 
application will not be eligible for consideration if there is a 
report outstanding on any previous research grant awarded by 
the British Academy to the Applicant. 
Curriculum Vitae Upload 
Please upload your current Curriculum Vitae to the Flexi-Grant® 
GMS 
Where did you hear about this scheme? 
Please indicate where you heard about this scheme. 
 
 
PAGES 4 CO-APPLICANT CAREER SUMMARY 
 
PLEASE NOTE: In order to be eligible for this scheme you must have identified a UK Co-Applicant, who should be an 
academic based in an eligible institution located in the UK. Details of just ONE Co-Applicant should be entered for 
this scheme and you must ensure that a Co-Applicant has been added to the application and that all Co-Applicant 
tabs (Co-Applicant Personal Details and Co-Applicant Career Summary) have been completed before submitting your 
application. Any applications with blank Co-Applicant tabs will not be processed. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
12 
Specify Co-Applicant and add 
personal details and career 
summary / CV * 
Your Co-Applicant will need to have an existing account in the system before you 
are able to add them to the application. If they do not have an account, they will 
need to register themselves on Flexi-Grant before you are able to complete this 
section. 
Please click ‘Add Co-Applicant’, enter the Co-Applicant’s Flexi-Grant registered email 
address and then click ‘Next’. Confirm the user by clicking ‘Next’ then select the 
permissions you wish the sharer to have with your application and then click ‘Finish’. 
Please note that you must assign them at least some permissions in order for the Co-
Applicant function to work, and at least access to ‘Co-Applicant Personal Details’ ‘Co-
Applicant Career Summary’ and ‘Proposal’; it is up to you whether to allow them 
access to other sections. It is possible to go back each step by clicking ‘Previous’. 
Once you have clicked on the ‘Finish’ button, your Co-Applicant will be able to view 
your application and, depending on permissions, amend and submit your application.  
If you choose to do this, the sharer needs to click on My Applications once they have 
logged on to see your application. 
The Co-Applicant can then complete the Co-Applicant tabs themselves, or can 
provide you with the relevant information to do so. 
 
 
PAGE 5: RESEARCH PROPOSAL 
 
Subject Area* 
Please select the Subject Area from the drop down menu that is most relevant to this 
proposal. Please note that assessors are allocated according to the Subject selected 
by you.  
Title of Research Proposal 
Please give the title of your proposed project.  
  
 
Abstract * 
Please provide a short abstract summarising your proposed research in terms 
suitable for an informed general audience, not one specialised in your field. This is a 
mandatory field and the limit is 150 words 
Proposed Programme * 
Please give a detailed description of the research programme, including 
methodology. Applicants should be aware of the importance that assessors place on 
the viability, specificity and originality of the research programme and of its 
achievability within the timescale, which should be specified in the Plan of Action. 
This is a mandatory field and the limit is 1500 words 
Plan of Action * 
Please indicate here a clear timetable for your research programme. 
Try to be as realistic as possible, but keep in mind that research programmes will 
develop over time and this plan of action is not something that is expected to account 
for every minute and is not unchangeable. But your chances of award will be affected 
by the assessors' perception of how viable and realistic this plan is. This is a 
mandatory field and the limit is 800 words 
Planned 
research 
outputs/plans 
for 
publication/dissemination * 
Under ‘planned research outputs’, please only state the type of output expected (for 
example monograph(s), journal article(s), book chapter(s) report(s), guidance notes, 
teaching modules/resources, websites and digital resources, etc). Please give more 
detail about potential publishers etc under plans for publication/dissemination. This 
is a mandatory field and there is a limit of 300 words for planned research outputs 
and 500 words for plans for publication dissemination 
Digital Resource  
It is a condition of the award that digital resources created as a result of research 
funded by the Academy be deposited in an appropriately accessible repository. 
Applicants should ensure that any necessary technical advice is obtained before 
commencing work that involves the creation of digital resources. 
Starting Date / End date * 
To select a date in the future using the calendar feature, click on the month and year 
in between the two arrows at the top of the box. To change the year keep clicking on 
the box – a second click will produce a decade. Use the arrows to move back or 
forward in time. To change the month, a second box will appear where you can select 
the month you wish and then you can type the year you require in the box provided. 
Click on the date and the calendar will take you to the month and year you have 
selected where you can select the relevant date for display. 
Please note that awards for Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey or Vietnam must be 
held over a continuous period of 12 months. The start date should not be earlier than 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
13 
01 September 2018 and not later than 30 September 2018. The end date for awards 
should be no later than 30 September 2019. 
Proposed Co-Host Institution 
Please indicate here your choice of Co-Host UK institution, including the appropriate 
Faculty, Department, Research Institute or College where you propose to work 
Reason of Choice of Co-Host 
Institution * 
Please explain the reason for your choice of UK Co-Host institution (the 
university/research institute, department, Co-Applicant). 
Language Competence * 
Please state your standard of English in reading, writing and speaking. Please use the 
terms bilingual/fluent/good/moderate/basic to describe your level of English in 
reading, writing and speaking. 
Other Participants / Role of 
other participants * 
The application only allows for one Applicant and one Co-Applicant but you should 
use this section to list any other participants such as members of each group or 
network.  
Under ‘Other participants’ please give the names and positions of any other 
participants such as postdocs or PhD students. If detail are not known yet, please 
indicate numbers and status of people who might be involved. Please describe the 
contribution to the project to be made by other participants and what they are 
expected to bring or gain from the process. 
Ethical Issues * 
It is expected that most ethical issues will be covered by standard codes of practice. 
It is only necessary to indicate here in detail any non-standard issues. Please note 
the Academy’s ethics policy described in its Code of Practice. Approval to undertake 
the research must be granted by the relevant authority before any work requiring 
approval begins. 
Benefits 
to 
individuals 
/ 
institutions * 
Describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will result 
from the proposed award for the Applicant, the Co-Applicant, and the respective 
groups/networks and institutions. In particular please comment on how the award 
will benefit the career development of the Applicant and contribute to the transfer 
of knowledge and research capabilities, the added value of the collaboration, and 
any intentions for sustaining the partnership in the longer term. Maximum 550 
words. 
Benefits to Overseas Country 
* 
The benefits to the Newton Fund partner country is a critical aspect of the Newton 
Mobility Grants scheme. Describe any potential benefits to the Applicant’s home 
country that will result from the proposed award, especially how the research will 
contribute to advancing economic development and social welfare of the country to 
benefit the wider society. Maximum 600 words. 
Benefits to UK * 
Describe any potential secondary benefits to the UK and UK research that will result 
from the proposed award. Maximum 300 words. 
Training Programme * 
Training and career development is a critical aspect of the Newton Mobility Grants. 
The training programme is intended for the benefit of the overseas Applicant and 
their research network. Please provide a breakdown of, and justification for, the 
funding requested for this training programme, outlining its relevance and suitability. 
Please also include the following points: a) who will deliver and who will receive the 
training? b) what are the expected outcomes? c) what is the structure of the training 
programme (e.g. courses, training modules, specific activities)? 
Maximum 1000 words. 
ODA Justification Statement  
Please provide an ODA justification statement. You should consider using the 
following questions when preparing this statement: 
 
1. Which country/countries on the DAC list will directly benefit from this 
proposal and are these countries likely to continue to be ODA eligible for 
the duration of the research? 
 
2. How is your proposal directly and primarily relevant to the development 
challenges (Sustainable Development Goals) of these countries? 
 
3. How do you expect that the outcome of your proposed activities promote 
the economic development and welfare of a country or countries on the 
DAC list / What are the Pathways to Impact? 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
14 
 
PAGE 6: FINANCIAL DETAILS 
 
Financial Details 
 
 
Applicants should prepare accurate costings for the proposed 
expenses, and should be particularly careful not to overestimate 
the resources required.  
 
Please note that grants are cash-limited, and there is no scope 
for supplementation of an award. Projects should be fully costed 
from the outset. However, requests to carry forward 
underspend from year one will be considered. 
Justification * 
Please give a full justification for all costs. Please ensure that 
justification is broken down by budget category for year 1. 
Applications to Other Funding Bodies 
Please provide details of other support given or applied for in 
connection with the current proposal.  
 
If you do not have any applications submitted with other funding 
bodies please enter “None” in this section 
 
PAGE 7: EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES 
 
Equal Opportunities  
 
 
This section is optional; however, the Academy would greatly 
appreciate it if you can complete the details to assist us in our 
diversity monitoring.  
 
The British Academy is committed to its policy of Equal 
Opportunity in the provision of its grants and awards.  Please 
help us to monitor the effectiveness of this policy by providing 
information concerning your age, gender, ethnic origin and 
disabilities (if any).   
 
This information will be kept separately from the rest of your 
application and will not be seen by those involved in making 
decisions in the selection process. 
 
 
 
PAGE 8: LEAD APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT /  PAGE 9: CO-APPLICANT HOD STATEMENT 
 
All applications for Academy grants are considered in the light of Head of Department (HoD) comments. No application 
will be considered without the required number of HoD statements, which must be received by the specified deadline. 
 
Please note that this scheme requires two Head of Department statements.  
 
No two references provided under the departmental support tab can be from the same person. If this is the case then 
it may make the application ineligible, and alternative HoD will need to be provided in accordance to the guidelines. 
 
Completion of Heads of Department tab:  
• 
To add a Departmental support (HoD) email address click on “Add HoD” link, enter the email address and 
select the “check email” button 
• 
If the HoD’s details appear, it means that they have an existing Flexi-Grant account under the email address 
entered. If so, select “contact now”, adding whatever personal message you wish which will be added to the 
automatic Flexi-Grant message, followed by “save” in order to attach the HoD to the application.  
• 
If a form appears prompting you to enter the email address again and other details, it means that they do not 
have an existing Flexi-Grant account. You will therefore need to create an account for them. To do this, enter 
their details and then select “contact now”, followed by “save” in order to attach each HoD to the application.  
• 
If you do not select “contact now” the details of the HoD will not be attached to the form. Please note that 
we do strongly advise that all candidates select the “contact now” button when invited to do so. This will send 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
15 
a message to your HoD alerting them to the fact that they have been asked to supply a reference for you, and 
explaining the next steps needed to be taken to do so. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: It is vital that you enter the correct email address for your HoDs as upon your application being approved 
by the co-host UK organisation, emails are sent automatically from Flexi-Grant to these individuals at the email 
addresses supplied on the application form with login details, and instructions for viewing the application and 
supplying the reference through Flexi-Grant. It is advisable, before adding a HoD, to check whether your chosen HoD, 
has an account in the Flexi-Grant system, and the email address associated with this, to ensure that you do not create 
multiple email accounts for an existing user which will cause confusion. 
 
PLEASE NOTE: HoD references must be provided through the Flexi-Grant system. They cannot be provided as an 
email attachment nor sent by post in hard copy. Please bear this in mind when selecting a HoD for your application 
and ensure that you nominate a HoD with an active email address and who is happy to provide a reference through 
an online system. If, after you have submitted your application, you find that your HoD is no longer able to provide 
a reference, please contact the British Academy to nominate an alternative signatory. 
 
It is the responsibility of the Applicants to: 
• 
contact HoDs outside of the Flexi-Grant system to ensure that they have received details of their Flexi-Grant 
login and instructions for supplying their statements through Flexi-Grant. While the Flexi-Grant system is 
programmed to contact HoDs automatically, Applicants should not rely solely on the electronic system to do 
so  
• 
ensure that references are supplied through Flexi-Grant by the specified deadline 
• 
keep track of the progress of references by viewing your Application Summary, accessed by clicking “Manage” 
on the “My Applications Section”; by doing this you can view whether a reference has been completed or is 
still pending  
• 
remember that applications without Head of Department statements will not be eligible for consideration 
It is advisable that you send your HoDs a copy of Appendix 1 (found at the end of these notes). 
 
Departmental Support * 
The two Heads of Department should be based at the principal 
Applicant’s overseas employing institution and the Co-
Applicant’s UK employing institution (the UK co-host 
institution). 
 
The Heads of Department are asked to endorse the application 
and demonstrate institutional support for the project. The 
statements must be written in English. 
If the Applicant’s Head of Department is also their current 
mentor an alternative person will need to be found to supply the 
Head of Department’s statement is required, e.g. Head of 
School/Faculty. 
 
If the Co-Applicant is also the Head of Department at the UK 
organisation, an alternative  to supply the Head of Department’s 
statement is required e.g. Deputy Head of Department or Head 
of School. 
 
Heads of Department are contacted automatically by the Flexi-
Grant system with full instructions about how to provide their 
reference in the system after the application has been 
submitted and approved by the UK co-host organisation. 
 
Please note: Applicants/Co-Applicants who hold a fixed-term 
contract finishing before the end-date of the grant must secure 
confirmation through their Head of Department Statement that 
their contract will be extended to cover the duration of the 
award if their application is successful. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
16 
THE ACADEMY WILL ONLY PROCESS COMPLETE, SUBMITTED AND APPROVED APPLICATIONS 
 
SUBMITTING AN APPLICATION 
 
Once you have submitted your application for approval by the UK co-host organisation (i.e. the organisation which 
employs your UK-based Co-Applicant), automatic emails will be sent to the UK co-host organisation approver asking 
them to log on to the system. You will not be able to edit your application after it has been submitted to the UK co-host 
organisation for approval. The approver will either: approve and submit your application, ‘send back’ your application 
and contact you to request modifications, or decline your application and contact you. 
 
If the UK co-host organisation approver requests modifications through the Flexi-Grant email facility, they can unlock 
your application, allowing you to edit it. They can do this by selecting ‘Send Back’. An automatic e-mail will be sent to 
you alerting you of this fact. Once you have completed and saved the requested changes, please re-submit your 
application for approval by your employing organisation. 
 
Once the UK co-host organisation has approved your application and submitted it to the British Academy it will not be 
possible to make any changes. 
 
It is recommended that you check that your application has been approved in time. To see the details of the UK co-host 
organisation approver and to check the status of your application, you should log into Flexi-Grant and click on the link 
to the Application Summary. 
 
Once your application has been submitted and approved, and your references have been received, you will not be 
contacted again by the British Academy until the final award decisions have been made, and you will not be required to 
do anything further in the Flexi-Grant system until that point. You can track the progress of your application by 
monitoring the Lifecycle Stages; to do this click “Manage” in the “My Applications” section. Please note that the 
eligibility stage in the lifecycle stages is an internal process and you do not need to do anything for this. PLEASE NOTE: 
You will receive notification of the outcome of your application by email outside the Flexi-Grant system. 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
17 
Appendix 1 
 
Guidance for HoD Statement Providers on Flexi-Grant 
 
If you have been detailed as a HoD statement provider by an Applicant for a Newton Mobility Grant, this reference 
should be provided electronically via the British Academy’s Flexi-Grant (electronic Grant Application and Processing) 
system - https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com 
 
Once the Applicant has submitted their application you will be contacted by the system requesting your statement of 
support. HoD statements must be submitted by Wednesday, 14 March, 2018, 5pm, (GMT). 
 
Obtaining your log in details: 
Your login details will be dependent on the email address that the Applicant provided for you in their application. If you 
have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically been generated for you using the email address 
supplied by the Applicant. If you have forgotten your password, do not know your password or are using Flexi-Grant for 
the first time, click the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter the email address supplied by the Applicant in the 
application (Please contact the Applicant directly if you are unsure of the email address provided). An email containing 
a link to reset your password will be sent to you. Click on the link to set/reset your password. (Knowledge of previous 
passwords is not required.) Please note that the email link is time limited and will become inactive after 30 minutes of 
being requested. Therefore please only click on the ‘Forgotten Password?’ link when you are able to complete the 
process within 30 minutes. 
 
Please note that your login details can also be used in future for any other tasks and are not just relevant to this 
reference. 
 
Please note: The email address is the unique identifier on Flexi-Grant, so it is important that you always use the exact 
same email address that the Applicant has provided in the application when logging on to Flexi-Grant. If you are already 
registered on Flexi-Grant please advise the Applicant to use the appropriate email address. 
 
Information required: 
You may be asked specific questions related to the application so please log-on and look at the application 
and the reference/statement of support form before formulating your response. You may be asked about 
the Fellowship Applicant and/or the UK - based Co - Applicant. You will not be expected to know either or 
both personally.  
 
Please note: If the Applicant/Co-Applicant for which you will be providing a Head of Department Statement currently 
holds a fixed-term contract that is due to finish before the end-date of the grant, your statement must include 
confirmation that their contract is due to be extended and will therefore cover the duration of the award if their 
application is successful. 
 
Word limits:  
Please note that there will be a size limit imposed on the reference; please check your statement is within the limit. The 
limits refer to words.. We recommend that you first type and save the text in a word processor and check the word 
count before pasting it into Flexi-Grant. If you exceed the specified word count the system will not allow you to save 
and submit your reference.  
 
Using Flexi-Grant: 
The Flexi-Grant system automatically logs you out after periods of inactivity (typing is not considered activity). 
Therefore, we recommend that you save your work frequently or, preferably, write your reference in a word processor 
first and then copy the text into Flexi-Grant, using the following instructions: 
 
1. Go to the Flexi-Grant website: https://britishacademy.Flexi-Grant.com 
2. Enter your email login. If you have never used Flexi-Grant before, an account will have automatically been 
generated for you using the email address supplied by the Applicant. 
3. Enter your password. If you have forgotten your password, or are using Flexi-Grant for the first time, click the 
‘Forgotten Password?’ link and enter your email address (the same one as entered by the Applicant). An email 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
18 
containing a link to reset your password will be sent to you. Please note that the email link is time limited and 
will become inactive after 30 minutes of being requested. 
4. Click on 'Tasks' 
5. Click on ‘Reference List’ 
6. Click on ‘Provide Reference’ (if you would like to view a PDF of the application first, click ‘Print Application’, or 
you may view the application form in its original format by clicking on ‘View Application’ on screen at the top of 
the reference form). 
7. Complete all tabs of the reference/statement of support form and click on ‘Save’ at regular intervals as you 
proceed: 
o 
References/statements must be written in English. If a reference/statement is not submitted in 
English, it will not be accepted and may make the application ineligible. 
Click on ‘Save’ and then ‘Submit’ (If the ‘Submit’ button does not appear, one of the mandatory fields, indicated with *, 
has not been completed. Please check all necessary fields are complete and click ‘Save’ again – the ‘Submit’ button 
should then appear.) When you have successfully submitted your reference/statement, you should get an 
acknowledgement on the screen, in the top left hand corner. 
 
Contacting us: 
If you encounter any other problems with accessing the HoD statement form please contact us using the details below. 
It is helpful if you can provide the name of the Fellowship Applicant or the UK Co-Applicant, or either of their email 
addresses; at least one of these will be given in the reference request email. 
 
Email: newtonfund@britac.ac.uk 
Tel: +44 (0)20 7969 5288 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms & Conditions of Award 
 
PART 1 
 
1. 
INTRODUCTION 
 
1.1. 
Part 1 of this Terms & Conditions of Award document sets out the standard terms and 
conditions for all British Academy awards. Additional terms and conditions specific to the BA 
Postdoctoral Fellowships are outlined in Part 2. The Academy’s expectations of host 
institutions are set out in Appendix 1. 
  
1.2. 
The Conditions of Award should be read in conjunction with the Award Letter, and the British 
Academy’s Code of Practice, which together set out the terms and conditions of the award. 
The Code of Practice is available on the British Academy’s website and may be updated 
periodically. 
 
1.3. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that the Award Holder, others supported by the Award 
and collaborators are made aware of their responsibilities and comply with these Conditions 
of Award and the Award Letter. Failure to comply with these terms and conditions will lead 
to termination of the Award and the British Academy reserves the right to recover the grant 
monies in part or full. For further information, please see Section 12: Compliance. 
  
2. 
DEFINITIONS 
 
2.1. 
Award: the award of a British Academy Newton Mobility Grant as specified in the Award 
Letter. 
2.2. 
Award Letter: the letter from the British Academy to the principal Award holder specifying 
the value and tenure of the grant that has been awarded. 
2.3. 
Award Holder(s): the person or persons to whom the Postdoctoral Fellowship has been 
awarded and who has responsibility for the intellectual leadership and undertaking of the 
research. 
2.4. 
Award Period: the period of the Award as set out in the Award Letter, commencing on the 
start date confirmed by the Host Organisation in the manner indicated by the British Academy.  
2.5. 
Data: includes computational or curated data, and data that are produced by an experimental 
or observational procedure. 
2.6. 
Financial Statement: a form that must be completed by the Host Organisation and submitted 
to the British Academy that sets out (i) the actual expenditure incurred by the Host 
Organisation during the Award period on the Award, (ii) the total amount awarded by the 
British Academy in respect of the Award, and (iii) any additional information that the British 
Academy requests from the Host Organisation. 
2.7. 
Host Organisation: the University, institution, research council or other body at which some 
or all of the research funded by the award will be carried out or which employs the Award 
Holder(s), and which takes responsibility for the management of the research project and the 
accountability of funds provided. (This is the organisation which approved the submission of 
the application in the Flexigrant system) 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
20 
2.8. 
Intellectual Property: includes all inventions, discoveries, materials, technologies, products, 
data, algorithms, software, patents, databases, copyright and general knowledge 
2.9. 
Report: a form on which the Host Organisation reports on the activities undertaken during 
the award period that must be completed by the Award Holder and submitted to the British 
Academy. 
2.10. Research Misconduct: includes the fabrication, falsification, or plagiarism in proposing, 
performing, or reviewing research or in reporting results, misrepresentation, mismanagement 
or inadequate preservation of data and/or primary materials, making up data or results and 
recording and reporting them, such that the research is not accurately represented in the public 
research record. 
2.11. The British Academy: the British Academy (a charity registered in England with number 
233176) 
 
3. 
USE OF GRANT 
 
3.1. 
Unless otherwise stated, all awards must be held in a research active institution. 
 
3.2. 
The Award Holder and Host Organisation must ensure that the Award is used only for the 
activities specified by the British Academy. 
  
3.3. 
The Award is to support the research project and related activities described in the application 
and against which performance will be assessed. If it is proposed to vary the project or 
programme in any significant way, prior approval must be sought from the British Academy. 
 
3.4. 
The Award may be used only for eligible items as outlined in the scheme notes, and in 
accordance with the activities originally requested in the application. If any exceptions have 
been approved, they will be specified in the Award Letter. 
 
3.5. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that sufficient resources are provided to support the 
activities described in the Award Letter. This includes adequate office and laboratory space 
and access to essential equipment and facilities. 
 
3.6. 
Expenditure cannot be vired between budget headings without prior written permission from 
the British Academy. 
 
3.7. 
Applicants must inform the British Academy of the outcomes of any other applications 
relating to the project. In cases where simultaneous applications to the British Academy and 
to another funding agency covering the same elements of a project are both successful, the 
applicant should decide which of the two awards to accept. Only if there is no duplication of 
expenditure under any of the budget heads, and no unnecessary inflation of a project, will an 
applicant be permitted to retain both awards (subsequent requests to alter the plan of research 
simply to allow the applicant to retain both awards are unlikely to be considered favourably). 
There is no objection to the applicant holding awards both from the British Academy and from 
another funding agency to cover separate elements of a project.  
 
3.8. 
Any items of equipment that may have been exceptionally agreed, and any research resources 
purchased with the help of a British Academy grant, must be deposited on the expiry of the 
grant with an institution (usually the recipient’s home institution, or otherwise as agreed with 
the British Academy). Such items do not become the personal property of the Award Holder. 
  
4. 
ACCEPTING THE OFFER AND PAYMENT 
 
4.1. 
The Host Organisation will be the financial administrator of the award. 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
21 
 
4.2. 
Awards are paid to the Host Organisation by electronic transfer (BACS). 
 
4.3. 
The timing of payment is at the British Academy’s discretion but every effort will be made to 
ensure that funds are released in good time. Please note that it may take up to 28 days for 
payment transfer to be completed by the British Academy’s Finance Office. The Award Holder 
must confirm acceptance of these conditions of award as part of the formal acceptance in the 
Flexigrant system before the grant is released. 
 
4.4. 
Grants are cash-limited at the value stated in the Award Letter. There is no scope for increasing 
the level of grant awarded. 
 
4.5. 
It is the responsibility of award holders to ensure that suitable arrangements have been agreed 
with the Host Organisation and any other partner institutions, whether in the UK or overseas, 
for the administration of the Award. This includes arrangements for the transfer of funds, if 
applicable, before the award begins. The British Academy expects the funds to be administered 
by institutions in accordance with their normal procedures for managing grant income. The 
Host Organisation is responsible for accounting to the British Academy for the use of the 
award. 
 
5. 
REPORTING AND ACCOUNTS 
 
5.1. 
The Award Holder must fulfil the financial and non-financial reporting requirements as set by 
the British Academy. Failure to submit a report that has been deemed as satisfactory by the 
British Academy can result in the Award being suspended or withdrawn. 
 
5.2. 
The Host Organisation must ensure proper financial management of the Award and 
accountability for the use of public and charitable funds, and ensure that formal audit 
standards and procedures exist for maintaining appropriate anti-fraud and corruption 
controls in accordance with the Fraud Act (2006). Any fraud associated with the award must 
be notified to the British Academy immediately. 
 
5.3. 
Recipients of awards are required to submit an itemised statement of expenditure, signed by 
the responsible officer in the Host Organisation. If there is an underspend on the grant, the 
unspent amount should be refunded to the British Academy. The report will be deemed 
incomplete until the grant has been fully accounted for and any financial reconciliation made. 
 
5.4. 
Future applications for funding will not be considered unless a satisfactory report and 
statement of expenditure for the previous grant have been submitted.  
 
5.5. 
At the end of all awards, Award Holders are required to submit a final report on the work 
carried out with the aid of the British Academy grant. The final report must be submitted 
within two months of the end of the Award on the prescribed report form via the Flexigrant 
system. 
 
 
5.6. 
For all awards lasting two or more years, Award Holders are required to submit an interim 
report for each year on the work carried out with the aid of the British Academy grant, with 
the exception of the final year. This interim report must be submitted on the prescribed report 
form and will be reviewed by the British Academy; only after it has been deemed satisfactory 
will funds for any subsequent years be issued. For the final year, the final report must be 
submitted as described in 5.5. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
22 
5.7. 
The Host Organisation must complete and return a reconciliation statement within 3 months 
of the end date of the Award period. The completed final reconciliation statement received by 
the British Academy represents the final statement of expenditure for the Award. The British 
Academy is not obliged to make any further payments in respect of the Award once it has 
received the final statement. The British Academy will reconcile the expenditure incurred 
against payments made to ensure that any under spend on the Award is returned. Funding 
cannot be vired between budget headings to cover the cost of an over spend, any overspend 
must be met by the Host Organisation. 
 
5.8. 
In the case of independent scholars, who have administered the award personally, receipts for 
single items over £100 must be provided. If there is an underspend on the grant, the unspent 
amount should be refunded to the Academy. The report will be deemed incomplete until the 
grant has been fully accounted for and any financial reconciliation made. 
 
5.9. 
The British Academy reserves the right to require the Host Organisation to complete and 
submit a statement of expenditure for a financial year at any time during the course of the 
Award, or to provide supplementary information in support of an interim or final statement 
of expenditure. 
 
5.10. In the event that the requested interim or final reports, or statements of expenditure are not 
submitted, the Host Organisation’s staff or affiliated / visiting researchers will not be able to 
apply or to be considered for British Academy funding until such reports or statement have 
been received, and are deemed satisfactory, with any underspend returned. 
 
5.11. If there are exceptional reasons that will prevent submission of the final report within the 
period allowed, a written request may be made, before the due date passes, for the submission 
period to be extended. 
 
5.12. All payments may be recovered if the statement is not received within 6 months of the end of 
the Award. 
  
6. 
VARIATION AND TERMINATION 
 
6.1. 
The British Academy reserves the right to amend these Conditions of Award, its Code of 
Practice, and any terms and conditions in the Award Letter. Any changes to the Conditions of 
Award or Award Letter will be notified to the Award Holder in writing, and any changes to 
the Code of Practice will be notified on the British Academy’s website. 
 
6.2. 
Work must commence on the start date as specified in the application and confirmed with the 
offer of award. Formal approval will be required if it is proposed to defer the start date which 
must still be within the start period stated in the Scheme Notes. The British Academy should 
be notified of any delay. 
 
6.3. 
Under exceptional circumstances, no-cost extensions may be requested. Extensions must be 
requested before the due end date of the Award, giving sufficient reason for the request. 
Requests for no-cost extensions received after the due end date of the Award will not be 
considered. If an extension is approved, the final report should be submitted as soon as the 
British Academy-funded phase of research is completed, within the agreed timescale. 
 
6.4. 
The Award Holder or the Host Organisation must inform the British Academy without delay 
of any change to the status of the Award Holder, Co-applicant, or the Host Organisation that 
might affect their ability to comply with these Conditions of Award. This includes contracts of 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
23 
employment which must continue at least for the duration of the Award or any cessation and 
event or circumstance that is likely to affect the overall delivery of the Award. 
 
6.5. 
The Award Holder must inform the British Academy as soon as practicable of any significant 
divergence from the original aims and directions of the research project that is being funded 
by the Award, or any cessation and event or circumstance that is likely to affect the overall 
delivery of the project. 
 
6.6. 
The British Academy reserves the right to terminate or suspend the Award at any time, subject 
to reasonable notice (normally 3 months). In the event that the British Academy’s public 
funding is reduced or withdrawn by UK Government or if the British Academy should enter 
into administration, the British Academy reserves the right to terminate any awards with no 
liability for any further Fellowship or Award payments. The Host Organisation will fully 
indemnify the British Academy in respect of any claims brought against the British Academy 
in this regard. 
 
7. 
PUBLICATIONS 
 
7.1. 
Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy should be made in any 
publication resulting from the research, whether an article, a book, or any other form of output. 
One copy of any book should be sent to the British Academy, where it will be catalogued, and 
placed in the British Academy’s Library. The Award Holder is required to provide the British 
Academy with full bibliographical information on any other published outputs resulting from 
the award. 
 
7.2. 
The Award Holder is expected to follow acknowledged good practice when publishing the 
results of their research as detailed in guidelines issued by, for example, the Committee on 
Publication Ethics, the Council of Science Editors and the ARRIVE guidelines. 
 
 
 
8. 
OTHER DISSEMINATION 
 
8.1. 
For projects whose primary purpose, or significant product, is the creation of a digital resource, 
data created as a result of the research, together with documentation, should be offered for 
deposit in an appropriately accessible repository within a reasonable time after the completion 
of the project. 
 
8.2. 
In cases where the principal output from the project is the creation of a digital resource, 
applicants should be aware that details of the project, and contact details of the principal 
applicant, may be passed to the relevant national Data Services providers for evaluation or 
contact purposes. 
 
8.3. 
The Award Holder is required to notify the British Academy of any impact resulting from their 
research. Impact can mean making a significant contribution to an academic field and/or to 
policy and practice decision-making. This could be an impact in economic terms, affecting the 
profits of firms or the revenue of government, or in terms of having an impact on less 
quantifiable areas such as the environment, public health or quality of life. 
 
8.4. 
The Award Holder must make all reasonable efforts, if so invited, to respond to requests for 
information or to attend events or activities organised by the British Academy concerning the 
research undertaken. Such events may be held after a grant has ended. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
24 
8.5. 
The Host Organisation must ensure that it obtains the prior approval of the British Academy 
on any press statements associated with the Award. 
 
8.6. 
Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy should be made in any 
form of media communication, including media appearances, press releases and conferences. 
The contents of any press releases or announcements associated with the Award should be 
agreed by the British Academy first to ensure they comply with any current publicity 
requirements (including any branding guidelines). 
  
9. 
RESEARCH ETHICS, POLICIES, AND LEGAL 
 
9.1. 
The British Academy will not become an employer of the Award Holder or any other third 
party as a result of the provision of this Award. In all cases where support is provided by the 
Award for the employment of staff, the Host Organisation must issue a contract of 
employment which is in compliance with relevant laws and regulations. 
 
9.2. 
The Award Holder and Host Organisation must ensure that the Award is managed in a way 
which is compliant with the terms of the (UK) Equality Act 2010. 
 
9.3. 
The British Academy requires the research it funds to be conducted in an ethical and legal 
manner. The Host Organisation is responsible for ensuring that ethical issues relating to the 
research project are identified and brought to the attention of the relevant approval or 
regulatory body. Ethical approval to undertake the research must be granted by the relevant 
authority before any work requiring approval begins. Research undertaken outside the UK 
must have both UK and respective country ethical approvals. The Host Organisation must 
ensure that all legal requirements related to the research are met. 
 
9.4. 
The Host Organisation should meet the requirements of the Concordat to Support Research 
Integrity (2012) and subsequent amendments, and must have in place formal procedures for 
governing good research practice and for handling and reporting allegations of fraud or 
research misconduct. 
 
9.5. 
The Host Organisation is expected to adopt the principles, standards and good practice for the 
management of research staff set out in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of 
Researchers (2008) and subsequent amendments. Research staff should be appointed on terms 
that are no less favourable than those of comparable posts in the Host Organisation. 
 
9.6. 
The Host Organisation is responsible for ensuring that a safe working environment is 
provided for all individuals associated with a research project, and must meet all regulatory 
and legislative requirements as recommended by the Health and Safety Executive, and will 
include appropriate care where researchers are working off-site. 
 
9.7. 
It is the responsibility of the Host Organisation and Award Holder to ensure that appropriate 
insurance is obtained for any individual employed on the Award, including students, who 
intend to undertake Overseas Travel, Fieldwork, Secondments or Sabbaticals during the 
Award period. 
 
9.8. 
The Award Holder is expected to comply with the Host Organisation guidelines on overseas 
travel and safety in fieldwork, particularly for high risk countries. The British Academy will 
not be held liable for the health, safety and security of award holders or individuals employed 
on an award. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
25 
9.9. 
The Host Organisation and the Award Holder must ensure that research involving the use of 
animals falls within the regulations laid down in the UK Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 
1986 and subsequent amendments. Any element of research funded by the Award that is 
conducted outside the UK must, as a minimum standard, be conducted in accordance with the 
principles of UK legislation. 
 
9.10. In the case of research involving the use of animals, the Award Holder must inform the British 
Academy that animals will be used in the research and provide the following details, the 
number of animals, the species and procedures involving animals. The Award Holder must 
also inform the British Academy as soon as possible of any significant increase to the number 
of animals used or a change in the species from that which was originally supported by the 
Award. 
 
9.11. The British Academy endorses the principle of the NC3Rs (replace, refine and reduce) which 
means that every effort must be made to replace the use of live animals with non-animal 
alternatives; to reduce the number of animals used in research; and refine procedures so that 
the degree of suffering for animals is kept to an absolute minimum. 
 
9.12. The British Academy accepts no responsibility for costs or liabilities arising from the research 
funded by the Award, other than those set out in these Conditions of Award, or otherwise 
agreed in writing. 
 
9.13. The Host Organisation, any Award Holder or any other person working on the Award 
(including but not limited to employees, students, visiting fellows and subcontractors) will 
indemnify the British Academy against any claims for compensation or against any other 
claims (whether under any statute or regulation or at common law) for which the Host 
Organisation may be liable as an employer or otherwise or for which any other person working 
on the Award may be liable. 
 
9.14. These Conditions of Award will be governed by the laws of England and Wales. All matters 
relating to the terms and conditions will be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of 
England and Wales. 
 
9.15. If any provision of these terms and conditions is found by a court or other legitimate body to 
be illegal, invalid or unreasonable, it will not affect the remaining terms and conditions which 
will continue in force. 
 
10. 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
 
10.1. Unless stated otherwise, the ownership of British Academy-funded intellectual property (IP), 
and responsibility for its identification, protection, management and exploitation, rests with 
the Host Organisation. 
 
10.2. It is the responsibility of the Host Organisation, and all engaged in the research, to make every 
effort to ensure that any potentially valuable results obtained in the course of the research are 
exploited, whether protected by IP rights or not, and used to the benefit of society and the 
economy. 
 
10.3. Where the Award is associated with more than one research organisation and/or project 
partner, a formal collaborative agreement must be established, which sets out the 
contributions and ownership rights of the organisations and individuals involved with 
regards to intellectual property and exploitation. It is the responsibility of the Host 
Organisation to put such an agreement in place before the Award commences. The terms of 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
26 
the collaborative agreement must not conflict with the British Academy’s Conditions of 
Award. 
 
10.4. The collaborative agreement must set out that the Host Organisation(s) is not restricted in its 
future research capability, that all applications of the intellectual property are developed in a 
timely manner and that the substantive results of the research are published within an agreed 
and reasonable period. 
 
11. 
DATA PROTECTION 
 
11.1. The British Academy is registered under the Data Protection Act 1998 (Registration Number: 
K4009399) and adheres to the Data Protection Principles. 
 
11.2. Successful applicants should be aware that the information they provide on the application 
form and in subsequent reports will be used by the British Academy for processing the 
application, making any consequential award, for the payment, monitoring and review of the 
award, and for general British Academy business. This information may be shared with 
relevant funding partners, including but not limited to the Department for Business, 
Innovation and Skills, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and the Department for 
International Development. 
 
11.3. Information will also be shared with relevant officers in the Host Organisation for the award 
procedures to be followed. 
 
11.4. Details of award holders (including name, institution, project details and amount of award) 
will be used to compile published lists of award holders which will be made available on the 
Internet, and to produce statistical and historical information on British Academy awards. 
 
11.5. Queries submitted under the terms of the Data Protection Act about the processing of personal 
data should be addressed to the British Academy's Data Protection Officer. Submitting the 
online application form constitutes the applicant's agreement to all terms, conditions, and 
notices contained in the Scheme Notes. 
 
11.6. Application forms will be retained for ten years in the case of successful applications, and may 
be consulted by the British Academy in the event of future applications being submitted. 
 
12. 
COMPLIANCE 
 
12.1. The British Academy reserves the right upon reasonable notice to inspect the award at any 
time and to require further information to be supplied as seen fit. Such further information 
may include but is not limited to financial records and financial procedures associated with 
the Award, or to appoint any other body or individual for the purpose of such inspection. 
 
12.2. Persistent failure to comply with the conditions of award will result in the British Academy 
writing to the Vice-Chancellor or equivalent senior official of the Host Organisation and lead 
to the possibility of sanctions. 
 
12.3. The sanction for non-compliance with the conditions of award is penalty-listing: that is, to 
disbar, sine die, the scholar concerned from applying to the British Academy under any of its 
grant-giving schemes; and to disbar, for a period of two years, all members of that institution 
from applying to the British Academy under any of its grant-giving schemes. 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
27 
 
 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
28 
PART 2 
 
SCHEME-SPECIFIC CONDITIONS 
 
BRITISH ACADEMY NEWTON MOBILITY GRANTS 
 
These Conditions of Award set out the standard terms and conditions for the British Academy 
Newton Mobility Grants. These awards are funded by the Newton Fund, which is part of the UK's 
Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment. The Conditions of Award should be read in 
conjunction with the Award Letter, and the British Academy’s Code of Practice, which together set 
out the terms and conditions of the Award. The Code of Practice is available on the British 
Academy’s website and may be updated periodically. 
 
The UK Host Organisation must ensure that the Award Holder, others supported by the Award 
and collaborators are made aware of their responsibilities and comply with these Conditions of 
Award and the Award Letter. Failure to comply with these terms and conditions will lead to 
termination of the Award and the British Academy reserves the right to recover the grant monies 
in part or full. 
 
1. 
Use of Grant 
 
1.1. The Newton Fund is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA). Its aim is to 
develop science and innovation partnerships that promote the economic development and 
welfare of collaborating countries. The Award Holder must ensure the activity that is 
undertaken as part of this grant is compliant with ODA rules and regulations as set out under 
the Newton Fund programme. 
 
1.2. The Award must be used for the purposes of training overseas researchers and developing 
Newton Fund Country research capacity through collaboration. Funding may not be used to 
support the training of UK based researchers. 
 
1.3. The Award Holder is expected to comply with the Host Organisation guidelines on Overseas 
Travel and Safety in Fieldwork, particularly for high risk countries. The British Academy will 
not be held liable for the health, safety and security of award holders or individuals employed 
on an award. 
 
2. Accepting the Offer and Payment of Grant 
 
2.1. The Overseas Award Holder will be the Principal applicant and the award will be administered 
by the UK Host Organisation (that is the UK-based Co-applicant’s institution). 
 
2.2. The UK Host Organisation must ensure proper financial management of the Award and 
accountability for the use of public and charitable funds, and ensure that formal audit standards 
and procedures exist for maintaining appropriate anti-fraud and corruption controls in 
accordance with the Fraud Act (2006). Any fraud associated with the award must be notified to 
the British Academy immediately. 
 
 
3. Publications 
 
3.1. Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy and the Newton Fund 
should be made in any publication resulting from the research, whether an article, a book, or 
  
 
Newton Mobility Grants: Scheme Notes (Brazil, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Vietnam) 
 
29 
any other form of output. One copy of any book should be sent to the British Academy, where 
it will be catalogued, and placed in the British Academy’s Library. The Award Holder is 
required to provide the British Academy with full bibliographical information on any other 
published outputs resulting from the award. 
 
4. Other Dissemination 
 
4.1. Due acknowledgement of support received from the British Academy and the Newton Fund 
should be made in any form of media communication, including media appearances, press 
releases and conferences. The contents of any press releases or announcements associated with 
the Award should be agreed by the British Academy first to ensure they comply with any 
current publicity requirements (including any branding guidelines).  
 
 JDAV/01/18 
 
 
The Newton Advanced Fellowship 
 
1. Overview 
 
This programme focuses on early to mid-career international researchers who have already established 
(or are in the process of establishing) a research group or research network and have a research track 
record.  The focus will be on developing their research strengths and providing support for more 
formalised training and development in collaboration with a UK partner. The award will support the 
international researcher in their own country, providing them with funding through a UK partner to 
establish and develop collaborations with the UK with the intention of transferring knowledge and 
research capabilities to partner countries.  The Fellowship can be for up to three years, and can provide 
salary top up, research support, training costs, and travel and subsistence.  
 
This programme is offered under the Newton Fund, which is an initiative that aims to develop the long-
term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research and innovation 
capacity, and forms part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance commitment.   
 
Objectives of the Newton Advanced Fellowship: 
We will recognise and support early to mid-career group leaders in partner countries to develop their 
research by linking them with some of the best research groups in the UK. The primary aims of the 
programme are to:  
 
 
Support the development of a well-trained research community who can contribute to 
advancing economic development and social welfare of the partner country by 
transferring new skills and creating new knowledge. 
 
Strengthen research excellence in partner countries by supporting promising 
independent, early to mid-career researchers, and their research groups and networks, 
to develop their research through training, collaboration, reciprocal visits, and the 
transfer of knowledge and skills from the UK. 
 
Establish long-term links between the best research groups (and networks) in partner 
countries and the UK to ensure that improvements in research capacity are sustainable 
in the longer term.  
 
Subjects covered: These awards will support researchers working on a subject within the natural 
sciences, including: physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, 
biological and medical research, the scientific aspects of archaeology, geography and experimental 
psychology and clinical or patient-oriented research. Applicants for social science and humanities 
should apply to the British Academy.  
 
Eligibility:  Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research experience and hold a permanent or 
fixed-term contract (see country specific criteria below) in a University, academic research organisation, 
publically funded or not for profit research institution outside the UK, which must span the duration of 
the project. Collaborations should focus on a single project involving overseas-based researcher (“the 
Overseas Applicant”) and UK-based researcher (“the Co-applicant”). We strongly welcome 
  
applications from female researchers. For further details please refer to the ‘Eligibility details’ on 
page 3.  
 
Duration of funding:  Awards are available for up to three years (depending on country). Should the 
budget not be spent at the end of the award period, applicants may be able to apply for a no-cost-
extension of up to 12 months. 
 
Countries covered:  Researchers from the countries listed below are eligible to apply for the Newton 
Advanced Fellowships in this round.  The Royal Society and Academy of Medical Sciences have 
established partnerships with funding organisations in each of these countries (listed below).  These 
partners are offering similar opportunities for UK researchers wishing to visit partner countries. 
  
The Academy of Medical Sciences 
Clinical and Patient orientated research 
The Royal Society 
Natural and Physical Sciences 
Brazil 
in partnership with CONFAP 
in partnership with CONFAP 
China 
N/A 
in partnership with the Chinese Academy of 
Sciences (CAS) 
Mexico 
In partnership with the Mexican Academy of 
Sciences (MAS) and the National Council of 
Science and Technology (CONACyT) 
In partnership with the Mexican Academy of 
Sciences (MAS) and the National Council of 
Science and Technology (CONACyT) 
South Africa 
In partnership with the National Research 
Foundation (NRF) 
In partnership with the National Research 
Foundation (NRF) 
Thailand 
N/A 
In partnership with The Thailand Research 
Fund (TRF) 
Turkey 
N/A 
in partnership with TUBITAK 
 
Value: The maximum award value cannot exceed £111,000 for a three-year period (up to a 
maximum of £37,000 per year). The following costs will be provided annually up to three years. Please 
note that the Fellowship does not provide FEC, contribution to overheads or administrative costs: 
 
 
Salary top up of £5,000 for the overseas-based researcher and/or project leader (“the 
Applicant”) from the partner country. 
 Research support of up to £15,000:  Covering costs for a contribution towards overseas 
research assistants, publication costs, conference, workshop or seminar costs, consumables 
and equipment. 
 Travel and subsistence of up to £12,000: Covering travel costs of the UK partner and/or 
experienced postdoctoral researchers to the international partner and/or travel of the 
international partner and their research group, including PhD students to the UK. 
 Training costs of up to £5,000: Covering costs for courses, conference attendance, training 
modules and specific training activities. 
 
For further details and limits for individual costs please refer to the ‘Eligible Costs’ on page 6. 
 
 The only fixed cost is the salary top up. You may request different amounts than stated above for 
research expenses, travel and subsistence and training as part of your application up to the maximum 
value of £37,000 per year.  Your request will be considered as part of the assessment process. 
  
Please check with your research/finance office if the overseas applicant is eligible for a salary 
top up. If you are unable to receive a salary top up, the maximum of £5,000 per year can be 
attributed to other costs, such as consumables, providing this is justified in your application. 
 
Transfer of funds to overseas institutions: The funds associated with the award will be paid to the 
UK institution in the first instance. The UK Host organisation must identify a safe and efficient way to 
transfer the funds to the overseas institution.  
 
Closing dates: 14 March 2018 15:00 UK time 
 
By submitting a Newton Advanced Fellowship application via the Royal Society’s FlexiGrant® 
you agree that the information provided in your application can be shared both with the Royal 
Society and the Academy of Medical Sciences. 
 
Results available:  Results of the competition will be available approximately 6 months after the 
application closing date. 
 
Contact Information 
Enquires about this scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us, please 
check whether your question is answered by these scheme notes.  If not, please 
email: newtonadvancedfellowships@royalsociety.org or call +44 20 7451 2291. 
 
Eligibility details 
Overseas Applicants 
 
The overseas-based researcher and/or project leader (“the Applicant”) and the UK-based 
researcher and/or project leader (“the Co-applicant”) must have completed a PhD or have 
extensive research experience at an equivalent level at the time of application.  
 
The Applicant must be working as an independent researcher at an overseas institution (in one of 
the eligible countries), and should not have more than 15 years of post-doctoral research 
experience. 
 
Applicants must either: 
o Hold a permanent independent research post in a University, academic research 
organisation or publically funded or not for profit research institution. 
 
 
OR 
o Hold a named, limited-tenured/fixed-term independent academic research post, obtained 
in open competition, and held in their own name in a University, academic research 
organisation or publically funded or not for profit research institution. Applicants must 
demonstrate that they have sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award.  
 
Contact between the overseas Applicant and the UK-based Co-applicant prior to the application 
is essential. This contact should lead to a clearly defined and mutually - beneficial research 
project proposal. Please note that the implementing academies will not be able to assist in 
locating a UK collaborator, but you can use the LinkedIn sites (here for physical and natural 
sciences, and here for clinical and patient oriented research) site on the webpage to 
communicate with interested parties. 
 
Applicants must be competent in oral and written English. The UK-based Co-applicant must 
confirm the competency of the Applicant on the application form and in their supporting 
statement. 
 
 
  
Resubmission 
 
Individuals who have previously been in receipt of a Newton Advanced Fellowship are not 
permitted to apply again.  
 
Applicants who have been unsuccessful in a previous round of the competition may make another 
application in this round.  
 
UK-based Co-applicant 
 
The Co-applicant must be an independent academic researcher based in the UK and hold a 
permanent or fixed-term contract in a University or eligible publicly funded research organisation, 
which includes government research institutes. In the case of fixed-term contracts, the 
employment must continue for at least the duration of the project. 
 
The UK based Co-applicant and their host organisation must agree to administer the grant. 
 
The Co-applicant must make all the necessary practical and administrative arrangements for the 
duration of the Fellowship. 
 
Applications cannot be accepted from private or commercial organisations. 
 
Country Specific Eligibility Criteria 
As well as fulfilling the above the eligibility criteria, at the request of the in country partner, applicants 
from the following countries must fulfil the below criteria: 
 
Brazil  
 
Awards can only be held up to a maximum of two years  
 
China 
 
Applicants applying from China must be based in one of the CAS institutions 
 
Applicants can only apply under the natural science remit and not clinical or patient-
orientated research. 
 
Thailand 
 
Researchers applying from Thailand can only apply under the natural science remit and not 
clinical or patient-orientated research. 
 
Awards can only be held up to a maximum of two years. 
 
The applicant must be first author or corresponding author of at least 5 international 
publications published in the ISI database and those publications must not be part of the 
applicant’s Master Thesis or Doctoral Dissertation. 
 
The applicant must not hold an administrative position of head of department or higher during 
the funding period. 
 
Successful applicants applying from Thailand will be eligible for additional funding from TRF. 
TRF will provide funds for research expenses, travel and subsistence, and training of 
approximately THB 1,500,000 for two-year awards, or approximately THB 750,000 for one-
year awards, to further their collaboration with the UK. 
Maximum value that can be requested for each heading is given in the table below: 
 
Maximum Value for 1 Year 
Maximum Value for 2 Years 
Research Support 
350,000 Baht 
700,000 Baht 
Travel and Subsistence 
350,000 Baht 
700,000 Baht 
Training Cost 
 
50,000 Baht 
100,000 Baht 
 
Applicant applying from Thailand: by submitting your application you are agreeing 
that the information provided in your application can be shared with TRF.  
 
  
 
References 
Four reference statements are required for the application. The following individuals need to be listed in 
the application for a reference: 
 
Departmental Support 
 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
 
 
The UK Host Organisation approver must approve the completed application by the submission 
deadline. 
 
Under the participants tab displayed on the application form summary page, please enter the e-
mail address of the following individuals:: 
o 
The applicant’s Head of Department 
o 
The co-applicant’s Head of Department 
 
It is recommended that Departmental Support is completed at least 5 working days before the 
submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time to submit the application for organisational 
approval. 
 
Note: if either the applicant or co-applicant is the Head of Department, then details of the individual to 
whom they report to must be supplied instead i.e. Head of School/Head of Faculty/Dean.  
 
 
It is the applicant’s responsibility to liaise with the UK Host Organisation’s Approver and 
Heads of Department to inform them of the deadline, check that they have received the 
email instructions for supplying the approval or indication of support through Flexi-
Grant® and to ensure that the task is completed by the deadline.  Please contact the 
Royal Society before the deadline if there is a problem.  Alternatively, UK Host 
Organisation’s Approver and Heads of Department can contact us directly if they have 
not received the email.  The Royal Society will not be held responsible for emails that are 
not received due to address errors or spam filters and no provision is made for non-
receipt of emails sent by the Royal Society. 
 
No two references provided under the departmental support tab and the nominated referee tab can be 
from the same person. If this is the case then it may make the application ineligible, and alternative 
referees will need to be provided in accordance to the guidelines. 
 
Nominated References 
 
 
Under the participants tab displayed on the application form summary page, please enter the e-
mail address of the Nominated Referees who you wish to invite to provide the relevant 
statements. These two referees should be able to provide unbiased comment on the field of 
research and on the applicant and/or the Co-applicant. At least one of the nominated referees 
must be a UK-based researcher. 
 
The following individuals must be listed under the participants tab  
o 
The applicant’s Nominated Reference 
o 
The co-applicant’s Nominated Reference 
 
It is recommended that the Nominated Reference is to be completed at least 5 working days 
before the submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time to submit the application for 
organisational approval. 
 
 
 
  
The guidelines for choosing a nominated referee are as follows:  
 
The primary consideration is that he/she is able to comment authoritatively on your 
application.  
 
At least one nominated referee must be based in the UK. 
 
It is requested that one referee be nominated by the Applicant and one by the Co-applicant. 
 
Nominated referees from the same institution as the Applicant or Co-applicant will not be 
accepted. 
 
Nominated references from the Applicant’s former/current supervisor (including PhD 
supervisor) will not be accepted. 
 
The referee must not be a member on the assessment panel for this programme or a 
member of any of the Academies’ Councils. 
 
References must be submitted in English. If a reference is not submitted in English, it will not 
be accepted and may render the application ineligible. 
 
Eligible Costs 
 
The award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both applicants need to identify the 
most efficient method to transfer the funds to the overseas institution. Payments of up to a maximum of 
£37,000 per year are made at the beginning of each year of the award. Payments for year 2 and 3 will 
be processed on receipt of a satisfactory annual report. The maximum award value cannot exceed 
£111,000 for the three-year period. Please note that the Fellowship does not provide FEC, 
contribution to overheads or administrative fees. 
 
 
Research support may be used to pay for: 
 
Publication costs (not more than £1,000 per year); 
 
Salary contributions of overseas research assistants (not more than £3,000 per year). 
 
The cost for organising a conference, workshop or seminar (not more than £3,000 per 
year). 
 
Consumables and equipment. 
 
Travel expenses may be used to pay for: 
 
The cost of travel, subsistence and visas for the overseas applicant and their research 
group, including PhD students.  They may also be used for the UK co-applicant and 
experienced postdoctoral researchers in their group travelling to partner countries to 
transfer skills or provide training.  It may not be used to support travel and subsistence for 
UK PhD students.  
 
Training costs may be used to pay for: 
 
The costs of courses, conference attendance, training modules and any specific activities 
related to training. They may also be used for consumables and equipment used for 
training. 
Timing 
Fellowships must start between October 2018 and December 2018. The fellowships are for a 
continuous period of up to three years. 
 
Assessment criteria 
Successful applications should be strong in all respects but the assessment panel will give 
consideration to: 
 
Whether the proposal will support training and development of the overseas researcher and 
transfer of new skills to the Applicant’s research group. 
  
 
The quality of the science, the proposed research project and the track record of the overseas 
Applicant and the UK Co-applicant in the area of proposed research. 
 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
 
The expected benefits to the Newton Fund country in particular the extent to which the award will 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities which will contribute to 
advancing economic development and welfare of the country. 
 
Evidence that the Fellowship will lead to a long-term collaboration beyond the tenure of the 
award. 
 
The following scheme notes set out the application process of the Newton Advanced Fellowship 
scheme.  
 
 
Please read through the entire document before proceeding 
 
 
2. Timetable 
 
Applications deadline 
14 March 2018 15:00 (UK Time) 
 
 
1. Overview  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           7 
2. Timetable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
3. Application Guidance Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 8 
Completing the application form  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
               Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Contact Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Applicant Career Summary 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Research Proposal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
Use of Animals in Research                                                                               14 
Use of Human Patients or Tissue                                                                       14 
Financial Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
Applicant Declaration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Head of Departmental Support  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Nominated referees Support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
4. Review Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
  
3. Application Guidance Notes 
 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
Applications can only be submitted online using the Royal Society’s Grants and Awards management 
system (Flexi-Grant®) via https://grants.royalsociety.org. Support, FAQs and troubleshooting can be 
found via http://royalsocietyapplicantsupport.fluenttechnology.com/support/home. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant®, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant®, homepage.  
Paper-based applications will not be accepted. 
 
Before completing the online form, all applicants should check that they comply with the eligibility 
requirements and ensure all necessary information is presented in the application. These requirements 
are strictly adhered to and applications without all the necessary information, or evidence to show the 
assessment criteria are met, will be rejected. 
 
ORCID identifier: All applicants applying to the Royal Society will be required to obtain an ORCID (Open 
Researcher and Contributor ID) identifier before they can commence their application. ORCID maintains 
a registry of unique researcher identifiers and a transparent method of linking research funding, research 
publications, research data and any other research outputs to these unique identifiers. You can register 
for an ORCID identifier via https://orcid.org/register. 
Further information about the Grants and Awards Management system can be found via 
https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/flexi-grant/. 
 
Completing the application form 
The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application summary page, with 
each page categorised as follows: 
 
Summary 
Eligibility Criteria 
Contact Details 
Lead Applicant Career Summary (overseas applicant/team leader) 
UK Co-applicant Career Summary (UK co-applicant/team leader) 
Research Proposal  
Use of Animals in Research  
Financial Details 
Applicant Declaration 
Head of Department Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
Head of Department Overseas Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
Nominated referees Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
Nominated referees Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
 
 
 
Inviting Participants 
To complete and submit the application form, the lead applicant is required to provide supporting 
statement from up to four individuals (including the overseas applicants Head of Department, the UK co-
applicants Head of Department, and two nominated referees, one from overseas and the other from the 
UK). These individuals can be invited through the participants tab displayed on the application form 
summary page. Under this section of the form you will find each of the required participants as 
described above displayed. Please select invite and enter the e-mail address of the person who you 
wish to invite to provide the relevant statements, and send the invitation. Once the recipient has 
accepted your invitation, their status will be displayed as ‘active’. Upon completion of their section of the 
application form, their status will be displayed as ‘complete’. You will not be able to submit your 
application form until the status of all participants’ shows ‘complete’. You can monitor the progress of 
your participant’s activity through this section of the application form, and issue reminders is required.  
  
Once participants have completed all their sections of the application form, please remind them 
to select ‘Save & Submit’ on the application form page or select ‘Submit your contribution’ on 
the summary page.  
 
Re-opening the Application form to Participants 
On the occasion that an invited participant accidentally submits their section of the application form 
prematurely, the lead applicant has the ability to re-open the application form for the participant. To do 
this, the lead applicant should return to the Participant tab on the application form summary page. You 
will find a ‘re-open’ button alongside the name of any participant who has completed their section of the 
form. Once you click this button, the form is reactivated and available for participants to amend. 
 
Research Support Role 
The Research Support role displayed under the participants tab is an optional role, which allows you to 
invite an individual from the relevant UK Host Organisation research support team to review and amend 
the application prior to submission. The primary purpose is to ensure that the requested finances have 
been recorded correctly for this specific grant programme. As this is an optional role, it will not affect 
your ability to submit your application for approval. 
 
Further guidance and support can be found through the applicant and approver knowledge base. 
 
Please note that questions with * are mandatory fields, which is typically the majority of questions. 
You will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host Organisation once all 
sections of the application form have been marked as complete, and your participants have 
marked their work as complete (please check the status of participants under the participants tab 
on the application form summary page). Late applications will not be accepted. 
 
In the following table each box represents a page of the application form; the left-hand column contains 
the questions within each of these pages as set out in the form; the right-hand column contains useful 
guidance on its completion.  
 
 
 
 
  
Please read these guidance notes carefully as you complete the form. 
 
Please note the Lead Applicant must be the researcher based in the Newton 
Fund Country 
 
Summary 
Summary table 
The summary page of the application form provides instructions for submission of 
your application for approval from the Host Organisation. In addition you are provided 
with an overview for each section of your application form, and the approximate 
length of time it will take to complete each section.  
The summary page also allows applicants to manage and invite participants (eg. 
Head of Department and Nominated Referees etc) who will partake in the application 
form. Instructions for inviting participants can be found under the ‘participants’ tab on 
the application summary page. 
 
Note: you will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host 
Organisation once all sections of the form have been completed.  
 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
Eligibility Criteria*   Confirm that the lead applicant and co-applicant meet the eligibility criteria. Details 
of the eligibility criteria can be found on page 3. 
 
Contact Details  
Title, Names, 
address, 
organisation and 
country* 
Review and complete your personal details accurately. Errors in this section can 
cause difficulties in processing your application.   
 
Under this section, you should edit the contact type of the participants who will 
partake in your application form. The system default contact type is set as 
‘collaborator’. To amend the contact type of your Head of Department, click ‘edit’, and 
under the contact type field, select the ‘Head of Department’.  
 
Organisation: this table will automatically display details of the intended Host 
Organisation ‘marked by a tick’ which you selected previously, and your current 
organisation if different from the organisation where the award will be held and 
administered. 
Email address* 
This field defaults to the account in which the application has commenced, and is 
where all correspondence pertaining to the application throughout the application 
process, and in the event of the application being successful, will be sent.  
 
 
Overseas Applicant and UK Co-applicant Career Summary 
Full name * 
Please enter your full name, including title below. (Co-applicant only) 
Title of Current 
Position* 
State the title of your current position. (maximum 20 words)   
Current Employer* 
Enter the official organisation name of your current employer. 
  
Current 
Department* 
Enter details of your current department name (e.g. Department of Astrophysics).   
Current Position 
Start Date*  
Enter the date when your current position started. 
Current Position 
end Date* 
Please enter the date when your current position is expected to finish. If you are on 
a permanent contract please enter 31 December 2050. 
Subject Group/ 
Area* 
Select the subject group/area(s) that most closely reflects your area of research 
from the drop-down menu and tick box options. 
Applicant 
Qualifications* 
List all your qualifications in reverse chronological order. The depth of information 
you provide is up to you, but this will represent you under assessment and so it is 
worth including as much good evidence for your academic merit as possible. 
 
Note: You can retrieve your qualification information from your profile to complete 
this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
 
Applicant Career 
History* 
List all your posts and the dates in reverse chronological order. The depth of 
information you provide is up to you, but this will represent you under assessment 
and so it is worth including as much good evidence for your academic merit as 
possible. 
 
Please provide full details of any periods of part-time working, career breaks, 
extended sick leave or maternity/paternity/adoptive leave as your eligibility 
may depend on the accuracy of this information.  
 
Note: You can retrieve your career history information from your profile to complete 
this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
 
List your key and/ 
or relevant 
publications* 
Provide details of authors, titles and references for up to five of your best 
publications in refereed journals, in reverse chronological order. You should choose 
not only the best but also those most relevant to the application to support your 
case. (Maximum 250 words)   
 
Note: if you have an existing ORCID identifier, you can retrieve your key 
publications from your profile to complete this section of the application form. 
Field of 
Specialisation* 
Enter details of your field(s) of specialisation. (Maximum 20 words)   
Summary of Your 
Current Research* 
Provide an outline summary of your current research. Please also include a brief 
comment on the strength of your organisations. (Maximum 200 words)   
Country* 
Select the country where your current employer is based. (Overseas Applicant 
Only) 
PhD Awarded 
Date* 
Please enter the date that you were awarded your PhD. If you have not received 
your PhD, please enter your expected completion date. 
PhD Institution* 
State the name of the institution where you were awarded or are completing your 
PhD. 
PhD Country* 
State the country in which you were awarded or will be awarded your PhD 
  
Applicant 
Research Funding 
* 
Please list all your current and previous research funding in reverse chronological 
order. The depth of information you provide is up to you, but this will represent you 
under assessment and so it is worth including as much good evidence for your 
academic merit as possible.  
 
Note: You can retrieve your qualifications and career history information from your 
profile to complete this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
 
Research Proposal 
Project Title*  
Give the full title of your proposed project. (Maximum 20 words) 
Start Date* 
Please enter the proposed start date of the project. Start dates must commence 
between 01 October 2018 and 31 December 2018.   
End Date* 
This must be either 2 or 3 years from the start date.  
Which Academy* 
Select which Academy you are applying to for funding support: Royal Society or 
Academy of Medical Sciences. 
Subject 
Group/Area*  
Select the subject group/area(s) that most closely defines the research area of the 
research proposal from the drop-down menu and tick box options. This will enable us 
to allocate the application to the most appropriate assessment panel. 
Abstract* 
Please provide a scientific summary of your proposed project. This should be a 
summary of your research proposal, briefly outlining the background and 
summarising the aims of your project. (Maximum 400 words) 
Lay Summary* 
Provide a lay summary of your proposed project. This should be understood by a 
layperson. Explain why you have chosen to work in this subject area and what it is 
about your proposed research that you find particularly exciting, interesting or 
important. Please also explain the potential impact or wider benefits to society of your 
research. (Maximum 250 words) 
Research 
Proposal* 
You can either detail your research proposal within this application form 
(Maximum 1500 words), or alternatively upload it as a PDF file. PDF files must 
be no longer than 3 sides of A4, portrait orientation, be titled and the text size 
cannot be smaller than Arial size 10. 
Your research proposal should provide a general description of the proposed 
research to be carried out. This should include, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
 
clear specification of the context and research objectives of the proposed 
study. 
 
description of the methodology to be used 
 
indication of milestones/timescales 
Training*  
A training programme is a critical aspect of the Newton Advanced Fellowship and must 
be included as part of the application. This is a requirement of the scheme and the 
Newton Fund. 
 
It is expected that the fellowship will address specific gaps relevant to the applicant’s 
own development and that of their research group. It is advised that the applicant 
undertakes a thorough skills gap analysis to identify the training required. 
 
Within the text field of the application form please provide an overall summary of the 
proposed training programme, its relevance and suitability. Please ensure you include 
the structure of the training programme (e.g. courses, training modules, specific 
activities), who will deliver and who will receive the training, which training will be 
  
performed at the Applicant’s institution or performed in the UK, and what are the 
expected outcomes. 
Previous 
Contact* 
Please provide details of any previous contact with the UK-based Co-applicant and 
indicate whether you have met them personally 
Benefits to 
Individuals/I
nstitutions* 
Describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will result from 
the proposed collaboration for the Applicant and their home institution. Please 
comment on how the award will benefit the career development of the Applicant and 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities, the added value of 
the collaboration, and any intentions for sustaining the partnership in the longer term. 
(Maximum 200 words) 
Benefits to 
Overseas 
Country* 
Describe any potential benefits to the overseas country and/or country of origin that 
will result from the proposed fellowship, especially how the research will contribute to 
the development of a well-trained research community, and how it will contribute to 
advancing economic development and social welfare of the country through 
enhanced research and innovation capacity to benefit the wider society (Maximum 
200 words). 
Benefits to 
UK* 
Describe any potential benefits to the UK and UK research that will result from 
the proposed Fellowship (Maximum 200 words). 
Data Management and Data Sharing 
The funding academies support science as an open enterprise, and are committed to ensuring that data 
outputs from research supported by the funding academies are made publically available in a managed 
and responsible manner, with as few restrictions as possible. Data outputs should be deposited in an 
appropriate, recognised, publically available repository, so that others can verify and build upon the data, 
which is of public interest.  
 
The funding academies do not dictate a set format for data management and sharing plans. Where they 
are required, applicants should structure their plan in a manner most appropriate to the proposed 
research. The information submitted in plans should focus specifically on how the data outputs will be 
managed and shared, detailing the repositories where data will be deposited. In considering your 
approach for data management and sharing, applicants should consider the following: 
 
What data outputs will be generated by the research that are of value to the public? 
 
Where and when will you make the data available? 
 
How will others be able to access the data? 
 
If the data is of high public interest, how will it be made accessible not only for those in the same 
or linked field, but also to a wider public audience? 
 
Specify whether any limits will be placed on the data to be shared, for example, for the purposes 
of safeguarding commercial interests, personal information, safety or security of the data. 
 
How will datasets be preserved to ensure they are of long-term benefit? 
 
Outline of data 
management and 
data sharing 
plan* 
If the proposed research will generate data that is of significant value to the research 
community, then please provide details of your data management and sharing plan. 
(maximum 200 words) 
Overseas Field 
Research * 
Will you be conducting field research overseas? 
  
 
 
 
Financial Details 
Duration* 
Specify the duration of your project: 2 years or 3 years. 
Budget Table* 
The following costs will be provided annually up to three years: 
 
 Salary top up of £5,000 for the group leader from the partner country. 
 Research support of up to £15,000:  Covering costs for a contribution 
towards research assistants, consumables or equipment. 
Overseas Field 
Research  
(Upload only) 
Please upload documents related to the following (if applicable): 
 
1. Permission 
Any mandatory documents that show local support has been assured by way of 
permission from the government concerned to travel to and work in the country. 
 
2. Collection of specimens 
Any mandatory documents that show: 
 
Specific permission has been obtained from the host country to collect and to 
export specimens and material. 
 
The director of the museum or other decision makers where these 
specimens will be deposited has indicated his/her desire or willingness to 
have such specimens and material 
Use of Animals in Research 
The funding academies are committed to supporting the development of alternative methods to reduce 
and/or replace the use of animals in research. Applicants proposing to use animals in their research must 
ensure that the use of animals falls within the regulations stipulated in the Animals (Scientific Procedures 
Act) 1986 and subsequent amendments. Additionally, applicants should continually be aware of 
developments in best practice, and adopt the principles of the 3Rs (https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/the-3rs) 
when designing and conducting experiments on animals. 
 
As a funder of research, the funding academies take its responsibilities towards the UK Animals (Scientific 
Procedures Act) 1986 seriously, and requires applicants to consider the questions below when preparing 
grant applications that include the use of animals. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of 
animals or 
animal tissue? * 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to complete all of the 
relevant questions on the Use of Animals in Research page.  
Use of Human Patients and Tissue 
Any application for a research proposal involving human patients or tissue and therefore requiring local 
ethical committee approval will be considered only when accompanied by the necessary permission 
certificate or proof that ethical permission will be sought, which must be provided in English. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of human 
patients or 
tissue?* 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to provide either a 
certificate or letter, as proof that ethical permission has been obtained. Please upload 
the file as a PDF in portrait orientation. 
  
 Travel and subsistence of up to £12,000: Covering travel costs of the UK 
partner to the international partner and/or travel of the international partner to 
the UK. 
 Training costs for up to £5,000. 
 Maximum per year: Up to £37,000 
 To add additional years to the budget table, please click “add another 
period group” at the bottom of the table 
Justification* 
Please fully justify all claims for funding, especially the requests for Research Costs.  
Financial plan* 
 
Provide a financial management plan for the project. This should include proposed 
financial transferral mechanisms to the overseas institution (Maximum 1500 words) 
 
 
Applicant Declaration* 
Please declare that: 
 
 You have read the Terms and Conditions of Award under which Royal Society and Academy of 
Medical Sciences grants are awarded and, if a grant offer is made, you agree to abide by them. 
 You have access to the necessary facilities to enable you to deliver the research proposed, and will 
continue to have access to the facilities for the duration of the project. 
 You have agreed with your Head of Department that you will be afforded sufficient time and resources 
to deliver the research project as described in this application. 
 
 
Overseas Applicant and UK Co-applicant Head of Departmental Support* 
You should invite both Heads of Department from the overseas and UK organisation to provide a 
statement of support by following the instructions under the participants tab on the application form 
summary page. Please check that they are able to supply their statement by 14 March 2018. 
  
Please Check which email address your Head of Department would like to use, as they may already 
be registered on Flexi-Grant® and mistakes may lead to a delay in processing your application. 
 
The head of department is expected to detail your suitability for the department and also set out their 
intentions for your career progression at the host organisation. 
 
 
Overseas applicant and UK co-applicant Nominated referee Support* 
 
You should invite two referees who can provide confidential references for your application, by following the 
instructions under the participants tab on the application form summary page Please check with them that 
they are happy to provide the references, and inform them that they will be contacted by email and asked to 
provide references via the Flexi-Grant® system by 14 March 2018. 
 
At least one referee should be someone who has worked closely with you, but the other must be external to 
your current research group. You should not choose both referees from your proposed host organisation, 
and if possible, one should be an international referee. Your named Head of Department cannot be listed as 
a referee.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
4. 
Review Process 
 
 
All applications to the Newton Advanced Fellowships are reviewed and assessed by three 
members of the selection panel who have the most appropriate scientific expertise using the 
criteria detailed on page 6.   
 
It is expected that applicants will be notified of the outcome of their application by email 
approximately 5 months after the application deadline. 
 
Please be assured that the Royal Society and Academy of Medical Sciences specifically requests 
anyone involved in reviewing applications to consider them in confidence.   
 
 
  
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicants fill in form online via Flexi-Grant® 
Both Head of Departments submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
UK Host Organisation’s approver submits 
their approval via Flexi-Grant® 
ROUND CLOSES 
Final submission to the Royal Society 
by deadline 14 March 2018 
 
 
Application is checked for eligibility  
and provision of support from both 
Heads of Department and Nominated 
Referees 
Rejection 
Application enters selection 
process 
AWARDED
Non-
submissions
: Rejection 
Rejection 
ROUND OPENS 
Both Nominated Referees submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
  
Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1                                                                            AV/NW 01/18 
 
 
 
Newton Mobility Grants  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Overview 
 
Aim:  This scheme aims to help strengthen the research and innovation capacity of researchers from 
partner countries by assisting them in visiting or sending staff and students to the UK and developing 
networks, research projects and partnerships with their UK hosts/counterparts and the wider UK 
research and innovation community.  Successful candidates may wish to consider subsequently 
applying for a Newton International Fellowship or Newton Advanced Fellowship to consolidate 
partnerships. 
 
The Royal Society’s Newton Mobility Grants are available through the Newton Fund, which is part of 
the UK’s official development assistance. Funds for a contribution towards travel, subsistence and 
research expenses can be requested for either a one-off short visit to explore opportunities for 
building lasting networks or for bilateral visits to strengthen emerging collaborations.  
 
This scheme is not intended to support continued research activities between a UK applicant and an 
overseas applicant who was a former colleague or PhD student or to support other existing or recent 
collaborations between the UK applicant and overseas applicant. Rather, the scheme is intended to 
stimulate new collaborations between scientists in the UK and overseas partner countries which must 
result in training and transferring knowledge and skill to help strengthen research capabilities 
of the overseas partner, and contribute to promoting economic development and social welfare in 
the overseas country.  The awards will also initiate the development of longer-term links between the 
overseas and UK researchers. 
 
Objectives of the Newton Mobility Grants:  The scheme is designed to offer a flexible platform for 
early career and established group leaders in partner countries to interact with their UK counterparts. 
The main aims of the programme are to: 
 
Strengthen research capacity of the partner countries - by facilitating training and skill transfer 
from the UK to partner countries. 
 
Support excellent research - by linking the best researchers in the UK with the best 
researchers and their groups in partner countries and providing support for initial exploratory 
research. 
 
Establish long term research links - between both partners to ensure sustainable research 
capacity in partner countries and benefit to the UK research community in the longer term. 
 
Subjects covered:  All activities must be on a subject within the natural sciences, including: physics, 
chemistry, mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, biological and bio-medical 
research, geography and experimental psychology. The Royal Society does not cover social science, 
clinical or patient-oriented research. 
 
 
Eligibility:  Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research experience and hold a permanent or 
fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research institute, which must span the duration of the 
project. Collaborations should be based on a single project involving (or lead by) ‘the applicant’ 
(overseas based scientist) and ‘the co-applicant’ (UK based scientist). For further details please refer 
to the ‘Eligibility Details’ below. 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
2 
 
 
Duration of funding:  Awards are available for either up to 3 months, 1 year or 2 years.  
 
Countries covered and associated partners:  The Royal Society has established partnerships with 
funding organisations in each of the countries listed below, as a result, scientists from these countries 
are eligible to apply for the Newton Mobility Grants programme. These partners are offering similar 
opportunities for UK scientists wishing to visit partner countries. Available in this round are 
applications from: 
 
 
Brazil - Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) 
 
Mexico - Mexican Academy of Sciences (MAS) 
 
South Africa - National Research Foundation (NRF) 
 
Malaysia - In partnership with the Academy of Sciences Malaysia (ASM) and the Malaysian 
Industry Government Group for High Technology (MIGHT)  
 
Thailand – In partnership with the Office of the Higher Education Commission, Ministry of 
Education (OHEC)  
 
Turkey – TUBITAK 
 
Applicants applying from Malaysia and Thailand: by submitting your application you are agreeing 
that the information provided in your application can be shared with Malaysia’s ASM and MIGHT and 
Thailand’s OHEC respectively. 
 
Further countries may be added in subsequent rounds. 
 
If you do not wish to submit an application with the countries listed above as part of the Newton Fund 
or you wish to apply for collaborations with countries not listed here, please download the scheme 
notes entitled ‘International Exchanges Scheme – Standard Programme’. 
 
Value:  The funding available is dependent upon the length of the visit and the partner country.  
Applicants may request: 
 
up to £3,000 for one-off travel lasting up to 3 months  
 
up to £6,000 for multiple visits to be completed within 1 year (including a maximum of £1,000 
for research expenses) 
 
up to £12,000 for multiple visits to be completed within 2 years (including a maximum of 
£2,000 for research expenses) 
 
In the case where the application is to support collaboration between the UK and Thailand, additional 
funding is available from OHEC to contribute the costs of the collaboration. Where applicants request 
the full £12k from the Royal Society, OHEC will provide matched up to a maximum of THB 500,000.  
Where candidates request less than £12k from the Royal Society, the funds requested from OHEC 
must be equivalent (for example if you request £6k from the Royal Society you may request THB 
250,000 from OHEC). 
 
For Malaysia, half of the award will be provided by the Royal Society and the other half from the 
Academy of Sciences Malaysia (ASM). Please note, the Royal Society’s contribution to the award will 
be paid to the UK co-applicant’s employing institution, with the ASM’s half be paid in Malaysian 
Ringgit to the Applicant’s employing institution. For clarity, a full award of £12,000 will be £6,000 from 
the Royal Society and MYR40,200 from ASM. 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
3 
 
Please refer to ‘Research Costs Justification’ on page 12 for a list of eligible and ineligible 
consumable items.   
 
Transfer of funds to overseas institutions:  The award will be paid to the UK institution in the first 
instance. Both applicants need to identify the most efficient modus to transfer the funds to the 
overseas institution. The Society will ensure that the funding will be transferred to the host institutions 
of the successful candidates.  
 
Application process:  The overseas applicant must draft and submit an application to the Royal 
Society by the deadline (see below) for up to £12,000. Please refer to ‘Submission Process’ on page 
15 for a step by step process. 
 
Closing date(s): 14 March 2018 15:00 UK time 
 
Results available:  Results of the competition will be available about 4 months after the application 
closing date. 
 
Contact Information:  Enquires about this Scheme can be made using the contact details below. 
Before contacting us, please check whether your question is answered by these scheme notes.  If 
not, please email: newtoninternationalexchanges@royalsociety.org or call +44 (0) 207 451 2532. 
 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
4 
 
The following scheme notes set out the eligibility and application process of 
the Newton Mobility Grants. Please read through the entire document before 
proceeding. 
 
1. 
Overview 
1 
2.  
Eligibility Details 
5 
Applicants 
5 
Activity 
5 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
6 
3. 
Application Guidance Notes 
7 
Assessment Criteria 
7 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
7 
Inviting Participants 
7 
Completing the application form 
8 
Page Summary 
8 
Eligibility Criteria 
9 
Contact Details 
9 
Lead Applicant Career Summary and 4. Co-applicant UK Career Summary 
9 
Research Proposal 
10 
Use of Animals in Research 
12 
Financial Details 
12 
Applicant Declaration  
13 
Overseas Head of Department Support and 10. UK Head of Department Support 
13 
4. 
Review Process 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
5 
 
 
2.  
Eligibility Details 
 
Applicants 
 
The Overseas based scientist and/or project leader (the applicant) and the UK based scientist 
and/or project leader (the co-applicant) must have completed a PhD or have extensive 
experience at an equivalent level at the time of application.  
 
The UK applicant and overseas applicant must hold a permanent or fixed term contract for the 
duration of the award in an eligible organisation in their respective countries. Ineligible 
organisations include industrial, private and commercial organisations, university spin-out 
companies and governmental bodies. 
 
The UK applicant and overseas applicant must be based in their respective countries/ 
institutions at the time of application  
 
Applications must be started by the overseas applicant on behalf of the UK applicant and the 
respective teams i.e. the application must be initiated in the overseas applicant’s Flexi-grant 
account 
 
Applicants and co-applicants are not permitted to submit more than one application per round 
(deadline) although may also apply for a Newton International Fellowship or Newton 
Advanced Fellowship 
 
UK award holders of a current Newton Mobility Grants award with the same overseas country 
as the (proposed) application may not apply until the project has ended and the final report 
has been submitted.  
 
Retired scientists, who are still active in science, must submit their application through an 
eligible UK institute.  If this is not possible please contact us for further advice at least two 
weeks before the deadline 
 
Activity 
 
All activities must be on a subject within the natural sciences, including: physics, chemistry, 
mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, biological or bio-medical research, 
geography and experimental psychology. The Royal Society does not cover social science, 
clinical or patient-oriented research. 
 
Collaborations should be based on a single project. 
 
Applications can only support travel between the UK and the overseas collaborator’s country; 
costs for travel between a third country are not eligible. 
 
Activities must start no earlier than 4 months after the closing date and no later than: 
a) 15 September 2018 in the case of the applications submitted to 2018/R1 
 
Activities fundable under this scheme are as follows: 
One-off visit collaborations 
 
One visit to be taken in either direction i.e. either the UK applicant undertakes a visit 
to the overseas institute or the overseas applicant visits the UK institute 
 
Visits to last between 1 week-3 months 
 
Up to £3,000 available 
Multiple visits collaborations 
 
Collaborative visits to be undertaken over a period of either up to: 
a) 1 year with up to £6,000 available, £1,000 of which can be spent on consumables 
or 
b) 2 years with up to £12,000 available, £2,000 of which can be spent on 
consumables 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
6 
 
 
Visits are expected to be bilateral meaning that the UK applicant and overseas 
applicant and/or project participants must undertake at least one visit to the 
overseas collaborating institute during the award period.  UK Researchers may visit 
overseas partners for the purposes of providing training and skills transfer through 
collaboration. 
 
Any project participants must be working in a UK/overseas university or research institute. 
The Royal Society would like to encourage the participation of junior scientists from the 
overseas partner including PhD students.  Funding cannot be used to support UK based PhD 
students. 
 
Only participants based at the same institution and working within the UK applicant’s or 
overseas applicant’s research group directly involved in the collaborative project are eligible 
to claim travel and subsistence against the award should the application be successful. 
 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
 
The UK Host Organisation approver must approve the completed application by the 
submission deadline. 
 
The following individuals must be listed under the Head of Department pages of the 
application form and they can be invited under the Participants tab displayed on the 
Application Form Summary page: 
o 
The applicant’s Head of Department 
o 
The co-applicant’s Head of Department 
 
It is recommended that the Departmental Supports should be completed at least 5 working 
days before the submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time for organisational 
approval. 
 
NOTE: if either the UK applicant or overseas applicant is the Head of Department, then details of the 
individual to whom they report to must be supplied instead i.e. Head of School/Head of Faculty/Dean 
 
 
It is the applicant’s responsibility to liaise with the UK Host Organisation’s Approver 
and Heads of Department to ensure that the required tasks are completed by the 
deadline.  Please contact the Royal Society before the deadline if there is any issue.  
Alternatively, UK Host Organisation’s Approver and Heads of Department can contact 
us directly.  The Royal Society will not be held responsible for emails that are not 
received due to address errors or spam filters and no provision is made for non-receipt 
of emails sent by the Royal Society. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
7 
 
3. 
Application Guidance Notes 
 
Assessment Criteria 
The primary considerations are listed below. Successful applications should be strong in all respects: 
 
The training and development of the overseas researcher and the transfer of new skills to the 
applicant’s research group 
 
The research background of the UK and overseas scientist 
 
The strength of the scientists and institution in the area of proposed research 
 
The mutual benefit of the collaboration 
 
The strength of the proposal 
 
The potential contribution to the UK science base 
 
The potential for long-term collaboration 
 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
Applications can only be submitted online using the Royal Society’s Grants and Awards management 
system (Flexi-Grant®) via https://grants.royalsociety.org. Support, FAQs and troubleshooting can 
be found via http://royalsocietyapplicantsupport.fluenttechnology.com/support/home. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant®, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant®, 
homepage. Paper-based applications will not be accepted. 
 
Before completing the online form, all applicants should check that they comply with the eligibility 
requirements and ensure all necessary information is presented in the application. These 
requirements are strictly adhered to and applications without all the necessary information, or 
evidence to show the assessment criteria are met, will be rejected. 
 
ORCID identifier: All applicants applying to the Royal Society will be required to obtain an ORCID 
(Open Researcher and Contributor ID) identifier before they can commence their application. ORCID 
maintains a registry of unique researcher identifiers and a transparent method of linking research 
funding, research publications, research data and any other research outputs to these unique 
identifiers. You can register for an ORCID identifier via https://orcid.org/register. 
 
Further information about the Grants and Awards Management system can be found via 
https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/flexi-grant/. 
 
Inviting Participants 
All applications must be commenced by the UK applicant. The overseas partner will be considered as 
the co-applicant. The required participants (i.e. co-applicant and Heads of Department) can be invited 
through the Participants tab displayed on the Application Form Summary page. Under this section, 
please select ‘invite’ and enter the e-mail address of the participant and send the invitation. Once the 
recipient has accepted your invitation, their status will be displayed as ‘active’. Upon completion of 
their section of the application form, their status will be displayed as ‘complete’. You will not be able to 
submit your application form until the status of all participants’ shows ‘complete’. You can monitor the 
progress of your participant’s activity through this section of the application form, and issue reminders 
as required. Once participants have completed all their sections of the application form, please 
remind them to select ‘Save & Submit’ on the application form page or select ‘Submit your 
contribution’ on the summary page.  
 
Re-opening the Application form to Participants 
On the occasion that an invited participant accidentally submits their section of the application form 
prematurely, the lead applicant has the ability to re-open the application form for the participant. To do 
this, the lead applicant should return to the Participant tab on the application form summary page. 
You will find a ‘re-open’ button alongside the name of any participant who has completed their section 
of the form. Once you click this button, the form is reactivated and available for participants to amend. 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
8 
 
 
Research Support Role 
The Research Support role displayed under the participants tab is an optional role, which allows you 
to invite an individual from the relevant UK Host Organisation research support team to review and 
amend the application prior to submission. The primary purpose is to ensure that the requested 
finances have been recorded correctly for this specific grant programme. As this is an optional role, it 
will not affect your ability to submit your application for approval.  
 
Further guidance and support can be found through the applicant and approver knowledge base. 
 
 
Completing the application form 
The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application summary page, with 
each page categorised as follows: 
 
Page Summary 
Eligibility Criteria 
Contact Details (Overseas applicant/team leader) 
Overseas Applicant Career Summary (Overseas applicant/ team leader) 
UK Co-applicant Career Summary (UK applicant/team leader) 
Research Proposal  
Use of Animals in Research  
Financial Details 
Applicant Declaration 
Head of Department UK Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
Head of Department Overseas Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
 
A full list of question fields to be completed as part of the application can be found in the following 
pages.  
 
Please note that questions with * are mandatory fields, which is typically the majority of 
questions. You will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host 
Organisation once all sections of the application form have been marked as complete, and 
your participants have marked their work as complete (please check the status of participants 
under the participants tab on the application form summary page). Late applications will not 
be accepted. 
 
In the following table each box represents a page of the application form; the left-hand column 
contains the questions within each of these pages as set out in the form; the right-hand column 
contains useful guidance on its completion. 
 
Please read these guidance notes carefully as you complete the form. 
 
Please note the Lead Applicant must be the researcher based in the Newton 
Fund Country 
 
Page Summary 
Summary table 
The summary page of the application form provides instructions for submission of 
your application for approval from the UK Host Organisation. In addition you are 
provided with an overview for each section of your application form, the 
approximate length of time it will take to complete each section. 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
9 
 
 
The summary page also allows applicants to manage and invite participants (e.g. 
co-applicant, Heads of Department and Research Support (optional)) who will 
partake in the application form. Instructions for inviting participants can be found 
under the ‘Participants’ tab on the application summary page. 
 
Note: you will only be able to submit your application for approval by the UK Host 
Organisation once all sections of the application form and participants’ status are 
completed. 
 
1. Eligibility Criteria 
Eligibility Criteria *  
Confirm that the applicant and co-applicant meet the eligibility criteria. Details of the 
eligibility criteria can be found on page 5. 
 
2. Contact Details  
Title, Names, 
address, 
organisation and 
country * 
Review and complete your personal details accurately. Errors in this section can 
cause difficulties in processing your application.   
 
Under this section, you should edit the contact type of the participants who will 
partake in your application form. The system default contact type is set as 
‘collaborator’. To amend the contact type of your Head of Department, click ‘edit’, 
and under the contact type field, select the ‘Head of Department’.  
 
Organisation: this table will automatically display details of the intended UK Host 
Organisation ‘marked by a tick’ which you selected previously. This is where the 
award will be administered, which may differ from your current organisation 
Email address * 
This field defaults to the account in which the application has commenced, and is 
where all correspondence pertaining to the application throughout the application 
process, and in the event of the application being successful, will be sent.  
 
 
3. Overseas Applicant Career Summary and 4. UK Co-applicant Career Summary 
Full name * 
Please enter your full name, including title below. (Co-applicant only) 
Title of Current 
Position * 
Please state the title of your current position. (20 words max.)   
Current Employer * 
Please enter the official organisation name of your current employer. 
Current 
Department* 
Please enter details of your current department name (e.g. Department of 
Astrophysics). 
Country * 
Please select the country where your current employer is based. (Applicant only) 
Current Position 
Start Date * 
Please enter the date when your current position started. 
Current Position 
end Date * 
Please enter the date when your current position is expected to finish. If you are on 
a permanent contract please enter 31 December 2050 as your end date. 
Qualifications * 
Please list all your qualifications in reverse chronological order. 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
10 
 
Note: Please retrieve your qualifications from ORCID or list all your qualifications in 
reverse chronological order. 
Career History * 
Please list all of your appointments since your PhD and the dates in reverse 
chronological order, stating if part-time (and percentage part-time) when necessary.  
 
Note: Please retrieve your career history from ORCID or list all your posts and the 
dates in reverse chronological order. 
List your key and/ 
or relevant 
publications * 
Provide details of authors, titles and references of your best publications in refereed 
journals, in reverse chronological order. You should choose not only the best but 
also those most relevant to the application to support your case.  
 
Please provide up to five of your best publications. 
 
Note: Please retrieve your key publication from ORCID or list your publication n 
reverse chronological order. 
Field of 
Specialisation * 
Please enter details of your field(s) of specialisation. (20 words max.)   
Subject Group * 
Please select the subject group that most closely reflects your area of research 
from the drop-down menu. 
Summary of Your 
Current Research * 
Please provide an outline summary of your present research. Please also include a 
brief comment on the strength of your organisations. (200 words max.)   
PhD Award Date * 
Please enter the date that you were awarded your PhD. If you have not received 
your PhD, please enter your expected completion date below. If you do not hold a 
PhD please enter 00/00/0000 
5. Research Proposal 
Project Title * 
Please give the full title of your proposed project. (20 words max) 
Start Date * 
Please enter the proposed start date of the project. Activities must start no earlier 
than 4 months after the application closing date and no later than 14 September 
2018. 
End Date * 
Please enter the proposed end date of the project. This must be either 3 months, 1 
year or 2 years from the start date.  
Subject Group * 
Please select the subject group that most closely defines the research area of the 
research proposal from the drop-down menu. 
Subject Area* 
Please select one or more subject areas that most clearly defines the research area 
of the research proposal from the subject sub-category list. 
Research Aims * 
Please state your scientific aims. (250 words max.) 
Lay Summary * 
Please provide a lay summary of your proposed project. This should be 
understandable by a layperson. Explain why you have chosen to work in this subject 
area and what it is about your proposed research that you find particularly exciting, 
interesting or important. Please also explain the potential impact or wider benefits to 
society of your research. (250 words max.) 
Research 
Proposal *  
Please provide details of your research proposal. Your proposal should also include 
an outline of the nature and purpose of your research project including a description 
of the experimental methods and techniques to be used.  (500 words max.) 
Outline of Data 
Management and 
If the proposed research will generate data that is of significant value to the research 
community, then please provide details of your data management and sharing plan. 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
11 
 
Data Sharing 
Plan* 
(200 words max.) 
 
The Society supports science as an open enterprise, and is committed to ensuring 
that data outputs from research supported by the Society are made publically 
available in a managed and responsible manner, with as few restrictions as possible. 
Data outputs should be deposited in an appropriate, recognised, publically available 
repository, so that others can verify and build upon the data, which is of public 
interest.  
 
The Society does not dictate a set format for data management and sharing plans. 
Where they are required, applicants should structure their plan in a manner most 
appropriate to the proposed research. The information submitted in plans should 
focus specifically on how the data outputs will be managed and shared, detailing the 
repositories where data will be deposited. In considering your approach for data 
management and sharing, applicants should consider the following: 
 
What data outputs will be generated by the research that are of value to the 
public? 
 
Where and when will you make the data available? 
 
How will others be able to access the data? 
 
If the data is of high public interest, how will it be made accessible not only 
for those in the same or linked field, but also to a wider public audience? 
 
Specify whether any limits will be placed on the data to be shared, for 
example, for the purposes of safeguarding commercial interests, personal 
information, safety or security of the data. 
 
How will datasets be preserved to ensure they are of long-term benefit? 
Participants * 
List other project participants from both teams, their current academic role/post and 
why you wish to include them on the project. Participants include PhD students, post-
doctoral researchers and any other research staff members from both teams. (200 
words max.) 
 
Note: There are no restrictions on the number of participants per team but only 
participants working within the applicant’s and co-applicant’s research group directly 
involved in the collaborative project are eligible to claim travel and subsistence 
against the award should the application be successful. 
Benefits to 
individuals/ 
institution * 
Please describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will 
result from the proposed collaboration for you, the co-applicant and the respective 
organisations.  
 
Please comment on how the award will contribute to the transfer of knowledge and 
research capabilities to the overseas partner, the added value of the collaboration, 
and the intentions for sustaining the partnership in the longer term. 
 (200 words max.) 
Benefits to UK * 
Describe any potential benefits to the UK, and UK research that will result from the 
proposed project. (200 words max.) 
Benefits to 
Overseas 
Country* 
Describe any potential benefits to the overseas country and/or country of origin that 
will result from the proposed project 
Please describe how the research will contribute to promoting economic development 
and social welfare of the country to benefit the wider society (200 words max.) 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
12 
 
 
6. Use of Animals in Research 
The Royal Society is committed to supporting the development of alternative methods to reduce and/or 
replace the use of animals in research. Applicants proposing to use animals in their research must ensure 
that the use of animals falls within the regulations stipulated in the Animals (Scientific Procedures Act) 
1986 and subsequent amendments. Additionally, applicants should continually be aware of developments 
in best practice, and adopt the principles of the 3Rs (https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/the-3rs) when designing and 
conducting experiments on animals. 
 
As a funder of research, the Society takes its responsibilities towards the UK Animals (Scientific 
Procedures Act) 1986 seriously, and requires applicants to consider the questions below when preparing 
grant applications that include the use of animals. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of animals 
or animal tissue? * 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to complete all of the 
relevant questions on the Use of Animals in Research page.  
 
7. Financial Details 
Duration * 
Specify the duration of your project: 3 months, 1 year or 2 years. 
Budget Table * 
You are permitted to claim total costs for: 
 
Consumables (inc. field work). Note: £0 for 3 months, up to £1,000 for 1 year 
or up to £2,000 for 2 years project duration 
 
Travel (inc. subsistence) 
The grand total of Travel (international), Subsistence and Consumables (inc. field 
work)are calculated automatically. Note: up to £3,000 for 3 months, up to £6,000 for 
1 year or up to £12,000 for 2 years duration. 
Justification for 
Consumables 
(incl. fieldwork) * 
Please fully justify your request for consumables, including expenses for fieldwork. 
 
i.e. Item 1: cost; Item 2: cost  i.e. Computer software: £500; Visa charges (x4): £200 
etc.  
 
Eligible consumable costs include Visa charges, police registration fees, postage 
and printing, books, reagents, computer software, stationery for overseas visitors 
whilst in the UK, fieldwork expenses, and animal and plant licence fees.   
 
Ineligible consumable costs include but are not limited to Publication costs, 
computer hardware, bench fees, conference registration fees, travel to conferences, 
departmental costs/overheads, access charges, medical insurance, excess baggage, 
expenses relating to accompanying dependents, contributions towards salaries, 
costs involving travel to a third country and costs incurred by project participants not 
associated with the applicant organisations. 
Justification for 
Subsistence * 
Please fully justify your request for subsistence. 
Fully justify your request for subsistence detailing accommodation, food and local 
travel costs to be incurred as a result of the International Travel/visits detailed above. 
You must complete a provisional visit plan for the duration of the award presenting 
the details as follows as this will enable us to easily asses the eligibility of your 
application: 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
13 
 
i.e. Last name of individual 1: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost; Last name of individual 2: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost  i.e. Professor Smith: 2 months, Nov 2011, Taipei, £800; Professor Wang: 3 
months, April 2012, UK, £1,000 etc.  
Justification for 
Travel * 
Please provide justification for the amount requested. 
 
Provide justification for the amount requested for international travel to be undertaken 
and the cost of individual travel expenses. 
 
Note: international & national airfares are expected to be economy/APEX rates. 
 
You must complete a provisional visit plan for the duration of the award presenting 
the details as follows as this will enable us to easily asses the eligibility of your 
application:  
 
i.e. Last name of individual 1: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost; Last name of individual 2: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost  i.e. Professor Smith: 2 months, November 2011, Taipei, £600; Professor Wang: 
3 months, April 2012, UK, £900 etc. 
Justification for 
Other Expenses 
Please fully justify your request for all other expenses.  
Researchers applying from Thailand only.  Please provide a justification for the 
additional funds that OHEC will provide. 
 
8.  Applicant Declaration * 
Please declare that: 
 
You have read the Terms and Conditions of Award under which Royal Society grants are awarded 
and, if a grant offer is made, you agree to abide by them. 
 
You have access to the necessary facilities to enable you to deliver the research proposed, and 
will continue to have access to the facilities for the duration of the project. 
 
You have agreed with your Head(s) of Department that you will be afforded sufficient time and 
resources to deliver the research project as described in this application. 
 
Please note that your declaration will be taken as a sign that your electronic signature is the legal 
equivalent to your wet signature on this application form 
 
9. Head of Department UK Support and 10. Head of Department Overseas Support * 
The lead applicant/co-applicant must invite both Heads of Department from the overseas and UK 
organisation to provide their support.  
 
Please check which email address the Heads of Department would like to use, as they may already be 
registered on Flexi-Grant® and mistakes may lead to a delay in processing your application. 
 
The Heads of Department are expected to supply their contact details and tick Yes or No to the following 
statement: The applicant/ co-applicant will be provided with adequate space and access to resources 
within my department. 
 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
14 
 
4. Review Process 
 
 
All applications to the International Exchanges Scheme are reviewed and assessed by two 
members of the selection panel who have the most appropriate scientific expertise using the 
criteria detailed on page 7.   
 
It is expected that applicants will be notified of the outcome of their application by email 
approximately 4 months after the application deadline. 
 
Please be assured that the Royal Society specifically requests anyone involved in reviewing 
applications to consider them in confidence.   
 
 
 
 
 Newton Mobility Grants 2018 Round 1 
15 
 
Appendix 1 – Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicants fill in form online via Flexi-Grant® 
 
 
 
Both Head of Departments submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
UK Host Organisation’s approver submits 
their approval via Flexi-Grant® 
ROUND CLOSES 
Final submission to the Royal Society 
by deadline 15:00 UK time 
2018/R1: 14 March 2018 
 
 
Application is checked for eligibility  
and provision of support from both 
Heads of Department 
Rejection 
Application enters selection 
process 
AWARDED 
Non-
submissions: 
Rejection 
Rejection 
ROUND OPENS 
 
  
International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1  
 
   AV/NW 01/18 
 
 
 
 
International Exchanges Scheme – Standard Programme      
 
 
1. 
Overview 
 
Aim:  The International Exchanges Scheme is designed to offer a flexible platform for UK based 
scientists to interact with the best scientists around the world.  Funds for a contribution towards travel, 
subsistence and research expenses can be requested for either a one-off short visit to explore 
opportunities for building lasting networks or for bilateral visits to strengthen emerging collaborations. 
This scheme is not intended to support continued research activities between a UK applicant and a co-
applicant who was a former colleague or PhD student or to support other existing or recent 
collaborations between the applicant and co-applicant. Rather, the scheme is intended to stimulate new 
collaborations between scientists in the UK and overseas. 
 
Subjects covered:  All activities must be on a subject within the natural sciences, including: physics, 
chemistry, mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, biological and medical research, 
geography and experimental psychology. The Royal Society does not cover social science, clinical or 
patient-oriented research. 
 
Eligibility:  Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research experience and hold a permanent or 
fixed-term contract in an eligible university or research institute, which must span the duration of the 
project. Collaborations should be based on a single project involving (or lead by) ‘the applicant’ (UK 
based scientist) and ‘the co-applicant’ (overseas based scientist). For further details please refer to the 
‘Eligibility details’ below. 
 
Duration of funding:  Awards are available for either up to 3 months, 1 year or 2 years. 
 
Value: The funding available is dependent upon the length of the visit.  Applicants may request: 
 up to £3,000 for one-off travel lasting up to 3 months.  
 up to £6,000 for multiple visits to be completed within 1 year (including a maximum of £1,000 for 
research expenses). 
 up to £12,000 for multiple visits to be completed within 2 years (including a maximum of £2,000 
for research expenses). 
 
Please refer to ‘Justification for Consumables’ on page 11 for a list of eligible and ineligible consumable 
items.  
 
The Royal Society - Royal Society of Chemistry International Exchanges Award 
Applications are encouraged for 2-year projects in the field of Chemistry from UK based scientists 
collaborating with researchers in Sub-Saharan Africa (excluding South-Africa).  Up to £12,000 will be 
available for travel and subsistence including a maximum of £2,000 for research expenses. 
 
Royal Society – Yusuf Hamied Foundation International Exchanges Award 
Thanks to the support of the Yusuf and Farida Hamied Foundation, additional grants for collaborations 
with researchers in India are available through the Royal Society –  Yusuf Hamied Foundation 
International Exchanges Award. Up to £12,000 is available for a 2 year project for travel and 
subsistence including a maximum of £2,000 for research expenses. Applications must be made through 
the Standard Programme. 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
2 
 
Countries covered:  The International Exchanges scheme accepts applications for collaborations with 
all countries outside of the UK. 
 
Special collaborative cost-share programmes are currently in place with Ireland (RIA), Russia (RFBR), 
Argentina (CONICET), France (CNRS), China (NSFC), Taiwan (MOST) and Japan (JSPS). For details 
on how to apply under these specific cost-share programmes please download the version of the 
scheme notes entitled ‘International Exchanges Scheme – Cost Share Programme’. 
 
A collaborative programme is currently in place in partnership with Brazil (CONFAP), China (NSFC), 
Mexico (Mexican Academy of Sciences), South Africa (NRF), Turkey (TUBITAK), Malaysia (ASM and 
MIGHT) and Thailand (OHEC) as part of the Newton Fund. For details of how to apply under this 
specific programme please download the version of the scheme notes entitled ‘Newton Mobility 
Scheme’. 
 
Key Dates: 
Round 
2018 Opening Dates 
2018 Closing Dates 
(15:00 UK time) 
Latest Project Start Dates 
2018/R1 
16 January 
13 March  
14 September 2018 
2018/R2 
10 April 
30 May 
10 December 2018 
2018/R3 
14 August  
02 October 
18 March 2019 
 
Results available:  Results of the competition will be available about 4-5 months after the application 
closing date. 
 
Contact Information 
Enquires about this Scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us please 
check whether your question is answered by these scheme notes.  If not, please 
email: international.exchanges@royalsociety.org or call +44 (0) 207 451 2532. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
3 
The following scheme notes set out the eligibility and application process of the 
International Exchanges Scheme – Standard Programme.  
 
Please read through the entire document before proceeding 
 
1. 
Overview 
1 
2.  
Eligibility Details 
4 
Applicants 
4 
Activity 
4 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
5 
3. 
Application Guidance Notes 
6 
Assessment Criteria 
6 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
6 
Completing the application form 
7 
Page Summary 
7 
Eligibility Criteria 
8 
Contact Details 
8 
Lead Applicant Career Summary and Co-applicant Overseas Career Summary 
8 
Research Proposal 
9 
Use of Animals in Research 
10 
Financial Details 
11 
Applicant Declaration  
12 
Head of Departmental Support and Head of Department Overseas Support  
12 
4. 
Review Process 
12 
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
13 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
4 
2.  
Eligibility Details 
 
Applicants 
 
The UK based scientist and/or project leader (the applicant) and the overseas based scientist 
and/or project leader (the co-applicant) must have completed a PhD or have extensive 
experience at an equivalent level at the time of application. 
 
The applicant and co-applicant must hold a permanent or fixed term contract for the duration of 
the award in an eligible organisation in their respective countries. Ineligible organisations 
include industrial, private and commercial organisations, university spin-out companies, and 
governmental bodies. 
 
The Applicant and co-applicant must be based in their respective countries/institutions at the 
time of application.  
 
Applications have to be new collaborations. This scheme is not intended to be used to extend 
an ongoing project or collaboration. Collaborations should be based on a single project involving 
(or lead by) the lead applicant (UK based researcher) and the co-applicant (Overseas based 
researcher).   
 
Applications must be started by the applicant on behalf of the co-applicant and the respective 
teams i.e. the application must be initiated through the Flexi-Grant® application portal of the 
applicant, which can be accessed when logged into the system. 
 
Applicants are not permitted to submit more than one application per round (deadline). 
 
Holders of a current International Exchanges award with the same overseas country as the 
(proposed) application may not apply until the project has ended and the final report has been 
submitted.  
 
Retired scientists who are still active in science must submit their application through an eligible 
UK institute. If this is not possible please contact us for further advice at least two weeks before 
the deadline. 
 
Activity 
 
All activities must be on a subject within the natural sciences, including: physics, chemistry, 
mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, biological or medical research, 
geography and experimental psychology. The Royal Society does not cover social science, 
clinical or patient-oriented research. 
 
Collaborations should be based on a single project.  
 
Applications can only support travel between the UK and the overseas collaborator’s country; 
costs for travel between a third country are not eligible.  
 
Activities must start no earlier than 4 months after the closing date and no later than the dates 
outlined in the ‘Key Dates’ table on page 2.  
 
Activities fundable under this scheme are as follows: 
One-off visit collaborations 
 
One visit to be taken in either direction i.e. either the applicant undertakes a visit to the 
overseas institute or the co-applicant visits the UK institute. 
 
Visits to last between 1 week-3 months 
 
Up to £3000 available 
Multiple visits collaborations 
 
Collaborative visits to be undertaken over a period of either up to: 
a. 1 year with up to £6000 available, £1000 of which can be spent on consumables  
 
or 
b. 2 years with up to £12000 available, £2000 of which can be spent on consumables 
 
Visits must be bilateral meaning that the applicant and co-applicant and/or project 
participants must undertake at least one visit to the overseas collaborating institute 
during the award period. 
 
Any project participants must be working in a UK/overseas university or research institute. The 
Royal Society would like to encourage the participation of junior scientists such as PhD students 
or post-doctoral researchers. 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
5 
 
Only participants based at the same institution and working within the applicant’s or co-
applicant’s research group directly involved in the collaborative project are eligible to claim 
travel and subsistence against the award should the application be successful. 
 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
 
The UK Host Organisation approver must approve the completed application by the submission 
deadline. 
 
The following individuals must be listed under the Head of Department pages of the application 
form and they can be invited under the Participants tab displayed on the Application Form 
Summary page: 
o 
The applicant’s Head of Department 
o 
The co-applicant’s Head of Department 
 
It is recommended that the Departmental Support should be completed at least 5 working days 
before the submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time for organisational approval. 
 
Note: if either the applicant or co-applicant is the Head of Department, then details of the individual to 
whom they report to must be supplied instead i.e. Head of School or Head of Faculty or Dean.  
 
 
It is the applicant’s responsibility to liaise with the UK Host Organisation’s Approver and 
Heads of Department to ensure that the required tasks are completed by the deadline.  
Please contact the Royal Society before the deadline if there is any issue.  Alternatively, 
UK Host Organisation’s Approver and Heads of Department can contact us directly. The 
Royal Society will not be held responsible for emails that are not received due to address 
errors or spam filters and no provision is made for non-receipt of emails sent by the 
Royal Society. 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
6 
3. 
Application Guidance Notes 
 
Assessment Criteria 
The primary considerations are listed below. Successful applications should be strong in all respects: 
 
The research background of the UK and overseas scientist 
 
The strength of the scientists and institution in the area of proposed research 
 
The mutual benefit of the collaboration 
 
The strength of the proposal 
 
The potential contribution to the UK science base 
 
The potential for long-term collaboration 
 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
Applications can only be submitted online using the Royal Society’s Grants and Awards management 
system (Flexi-Grant®) via https://grants.royalsociety.org. Support, FAQs and troubleshooting can be 
found via http://royalsocietyapplicantsupport.fluenttechnology.com/support/home. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant®, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant® homepage. 
Paper-based applications will not be accepted. 
 
Before completing the online form, all applicants should check that they comply with the eligibility 
requirements and ensure all necessary information is presented in the application. These requirements 
are strictly adhered to and applications without all the necessary information, or evidence to show the 
assessment criteria are met, will be rejected. 
 
ORCID identifier: All applicants applying to the Royal Society will be required to obtain an ORCID 
(Open Researcher and Contributor ID) identifier before they can commence their application. ORCID 
maintains a registry of unique researcher identifiers and a transparent method of linking research 
funding, research publications, research data and any other research outputs to these unique identifiers. 
You can register for an ORCID identifier via https://orcid.org/register. 
 
Further information about the Grants and Awards Management system can be found via 
https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/flexi-grant/. 
 
Inviting Participants 
All applications must be commenced by the UK applicant. The overseas partner will be considered as 
the co-applicant. The required participants (i.e. co-applicant and Heads of Department) can be invited 
through the Participants tab displayed on the Application Form Summary page. Under this section, 
please select ‘invite’ and enter the e-mail address of the participant and send the invitation. Once the 
recipient has accepted your invitation, their status will be displayed as ‘active’. Upon completion of their 
section of the application form, their status will be displayed as ‘complete’. You will not be able to submit 
your application form until the status of all participants’ shows ‘complete’. You can monitor the progress 
of your participant’s activity through this section of the application form, and issue reminders as 
required. Once participants have completed all their sections of the application form, please 
remind them to select ‘Save & Submit’ on the application form page or select ‘Submit your 
contribution’ on the summary page.  
 
Re-opening the Application form to Participants 
On the occasion that an invited participant accidentally submits their section of the application form 
prematurely, the lead applicant has the ability to re-open the application form for the participant. To do 
this, the lead applicant should return to the Participant tab on the application form summary page. You 
will find a ‘re-open’ button alongside the name of any participant who has completed their section of the 
form. Once you click this button, the form is reactivated and available for participants to amend. 
 
Research Support Role 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
7 
The Research Support role displayed under the participants tab is an optional role, which allows you to 
invite an individual from the relevant UK Host Organisation research support team to review and amend 
the application prior to submission. The primary purpose is to ensure that the requested finances have 
been recorded correctly for this specific grant programme. As this is an optional role, it will not affect 
your ability to submit your application for approval. 
 
Further guidance and support can be found through the applicant and approver knowledge base. 
 
Completing the application form 
The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application summary page, with 
each page categorised as follows: 
 
Page Summary 
Eligibility Criteria 
Contact Details (UK applicant/team leader) 
Lead Applicant Career Summary (UK applicant/team leader) 
Co-applicant Overseas Career Summary (Overseas applicant/team leader) 
Research Proposal  
Use of Animals in Research  
Financial Details 
Applicant Declaration 
Head of Department Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
Head of Department Overseas Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
 
A full list of question fields to be completed as part of the application can be found in the following 
pages.  
 
Please note that questions with * are mandatory fields, which is typically the majority of 
questions. You will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host 
Organisation once all sections of the application form have been marked as complete, and your 
participants have marked their work as complete (please check the status of participants under 
the participants tab on the application form summary page). Late applications will not be 
accepted. 
 
In the following table each box represents a page of the application form; the left-hand column contains 
the questions within each of these pages as set out in the form; the right-hand column contains useful 
guidance on its completion. 
 
Please read these guidance notes carefully as you complete the form. 
 
Page Summary 
Summary table 
The summary page of the application form provides instructions for submission of 
your application for approval from the UK Host Organisation. In addition you are 
provided with an overview for each section of your application form, the 
approximate length of time it will take to complete each section. 
 
The summary page also allows applicants to manage and invite participants (e.g. 
co-applicant, Heads of Department and Research Support (optional)) who will 
partake in the application form. Instructions for inviting participants can be found 
under the ‘Participants’ tab on the application summary page. 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
8 
Note: you will only be able to submit your application for approval by the UK Host 
Organisation once all sections of the application form and participants’ status are 
completed. 
 
1. Eligibility Criteria 
Eligibility Criteria *  
Confirm that the applicant and co-applicant meet the eligibility criteria. Details of the 
eligibility criteria can be found on page 4. 
 
2. Contact Details  
Title, Names, 
address, 
organisation and 
country * 
Review and complete your personal details accurately. Errors in this section can 
cause difficulties in processing your application.   
 
Under this section, you should edit the contact type of the participants who will 
partake in your application form. The system default contact type is set as 
‘collaborator’. Please amend the contact type of your Head of Department by 
clicking on ‘edit’, and under the contact type field, select the ‘Head of Department’.  
 
Organisation: this table will automatically display details of the intended UK Host 
Organisation ‘marked by a tick’ which you selected previously. This is where the 
award will be administered, which may differ from your current organisation 
Email address * 
This field defaults to the account in which the application has commenced, and is 
where all correspondence pertaining to the application throughout the application 
process, and in the event of the application being successful, will be sent.  
 
 
3. Lead Applicant Career Summary and 4. Co-applicant Overseas Career Summary 
Full name * 
Please enter your full name, including title below. (Co-applicant only) 
Title of Current 
Position * 
Please state the title of your current position. (20 words max.)   
Current Employer * 
Please enter the official organisation name of your current employer. 
Current 
Department* 
Please enter details of your current department name (e.g. Department of 
Astrophysics). 
Country * 
Please select the country where your current employer is based. (Co-applicant 
only) 
Current Position 
Start Date * 
Please enter the date when your current position started. 
Current Position 
end Date * 
Please enter the date when your current position is expected to finish. If you are on 
a permanent contract please enter 31 December 2050 as your end date. 
Qualifications * 
Please list all your qualifications in reverse chronological order.  
 
Note: Please retrieve your qualifications from ORCID or list all your qualifications in 
reverse chronological order. 
Career History * 
Please list all of your appointments since your PhD and the dates in reverse 
chronological order, stating if part-time (and percentage part-time) when necessary. 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
9 
Note: Please retrieve your career history from ORCID or list all your posts and the 
dates in reverse chronological order. 
List your key and/ 
or relevant 
publications * 
Please provide details of authors, titles and references of your best publications in 
refereed journals, in reverse chronological order. You should choose not only the 
best but also those most relevant to the application to support your case. 
 
Please provide up to five of your best publications. 
 
Note: Please retrieve your key publication from ORCID or list your publication n 
reverse chronological order.  
Field of 
Specialisation * 
Please enter details of your field(s) of specialisation. (20 words max.)   
Subject Group * 
Please select the subject group that most closely reflects your area of research 
from the drop-down menu. 
Summary of Your 
Current Research * 
Please provide an outline summary of your present research. Please also include a 
brief comment on the strength of your organisations. (200 words max.)   
PhD Award Date 
Please enter the date that you were awarded your PhD. If you have not received 
your PhD, please enter your expected completion date below. If you do not hold a 
PhD please enter 00/00/0000. 
5. Research Proposal 
Project Title * 
Please give the full title of your proposed project. (20 words max) 
Start Date * 
Please enter the proposed start date of the project. Activities must start no earlier 
than 4 months after the application closing date and no later than the latest project 
start date mentions on page 2. 
End Date * 
Please enter the proposed end date of the project. This must be either 3 months, 1 
year or 2 years from the start date.  
Subject Group * 
Please select the subject group that most closely defines the research area of the 
research proposal from the drop-down menu. 
Subject Area* 
Please select one or more subject areas that most clearly defines the research area 
of the research proposal from the subject sub-category list. 
Research Aims * 
Please state your scientific aims. (250 words max.) 
Lay Summary * 
Please provide a lay summary of your proposed project. This should be 
understandable by a layperson. Explain why you have chosen to work in this subject 
area and what it is about your proposed research that you find particularly exciting, 
interesting or important. If applicable, please also explain the potential impact or 
wider benefits to society of your research. (250 words max.) 
Research 
Proposal *  
Please provide details of your research proposal. Your proposal should also include 
an outline of the nature and purpose of your research project including a description 
of the experimental methods and techniques to be used.  (500 words max.) 
Outline of Data 
Management and 
Data Sharing Plan 
* 
If the proposed research will generate data that is of significant value to the research 
community, then please provide details of your data management and sharing plan. 
(200 words max.) 
 
The Society supports science as an open enterprise, and is committed to ensuring 
that data outputs from research supported by the Society are made publically 
available in a managed and responsible manner, with as few restrictions as possible. 
Data outputs should be deposited in an appropriate, recognised, publically available 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
10 
repository, so that others can verify and build upon the data, which is of public 
interest.  
 
The Society does not dictate a set format for data management and sharing plans. 
Where they are required, applicants should structure their plan in a manner most 
appropriate to the proposed research. The information submitted in plans should 
focus specifically on how the data outputs will be managed and shared, detailing the 
repositories where data will be deposited. In considering your approach for data 
management and sharing, applicants should consider the following: 
 
What data outputs will be generated by the research that are of value to the 
public? 
 
Where and when will you make the data available? 
 
How will others be able to access the data? 
 
If the data is of high public interest, how will it be made accessible not only 
for those in the same or linked field, but also to a wider public audience? 
 
Specify whether any limits will be placed on the data to be shared, for 
example, for the purposes of safeguarding commercial interests, personal 
information, safety or security of the data. 
 
How will datasets be preserved to ensure they are of long-term benefit? 
Participants * 
List other project participants from both teams, their current academic role/post and 
why you wish to include them on the project. Participants include PhD students, post-
doctoral researchers and any other research staff members from both teams. (200 
words max.) 
 
Note: There are no restrictions on the number of participants per team but only 
participants working within the applicant’s and co-applicant’s research group directly 
involved in the collaborative project are eligible to claim travel and subsistence 
against the award should the application be successful. 
Benefits to 
individuals/ 
institution * 
Please describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will 
result from the proposed collaboration for you, the co-applicant and the respective 
organisations. 
 
Please comment on the added value of the collaboration, and the intentions for 
sustaining the partnership in the longer term. (200 words max.) 
Benefits to UK * 
Describe any potential benefits to the UK, and UK research that will result from the 
proposed project. (200 words max.) 
Benefits to 
Overseas 
Country* 
Describe any potential benefits to the overseas country and/or country of origin that 
will result from the proposed project. (200 words max.) 
 
6. Use of Animals in Research 
The Royal Society is committed to supporting the development of alternative methods to reduce and/or 
replace the use of animals in research. Applicants proposing to use animals in their research must ensure 
that the use of animals falls within the regulations stipulated in the Animals (Scientific Procedures Act) 
1986 and subsequent amendments. Additionally, applicants should continually be aware of developments 
in best practice, and adopt the principles of the 3Rs (https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/the-3rs) when designing and 
conducting experiments on animals. 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
11 
As a funder of research, the Society takes its responsibilities towards the UK Animals (Scientific 
Procedures Act) 1986 seriously, and requires applicants to consider the questions below when preparing 
grant applications that include the use of animals. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of animals 
or animal tissue? * 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to complete all of the 
relevant questions on the Use of Animals in Research page.  
 
7. Financial Details 
Duration * 
Specify the duration of your project: 3 months, 1 year or 2 years. 
Budget Table * 
You are permitted to claim total costs for: 
 
Consumables (inc. field work). Note: £0 for 3 months, up to £1,000 for 1 year 
or up to £2,000 for 2 years project duration 
 
Travel (inc. subsistence) 
The grand total of Travel (international), Subsistence and Consumables (inc. field 
work) are calculated automatically. Note: up to £3,000 for 3 months, up to £6,000 for 
1 year or up to £12,000 for 2 years duration. 
Justification for 
Consumables 
(incl. fieldwork) * 
Please fully justify your request for consumables, including expenses for fieldwork. 
i.e. Item 1: cost; Item 2: cost  i.e. Computer software: £500; Visa charges (x4): £200 
etc.  
 
Eligible consumable costs include Visa charges, police registration fees, postage 
and printing, books, reagents, computer software, stationery for overseas visitors 
whilst in the UK, fieldwork expenses, and animal and plant licence fees.   
 
Ineligible consumable costs include but are not limited to Publication costs, 
computer hardware, bench fees, conference registration fees, travel to conferences, 
departmental costs/overheads, access charges, medical insurance, excess baggage, 
expenses relating to accompanying dependents, contributions towards salaries, 
costs involving travel to a third country and costs incurred by project participants not 
associated with the applicant organisations. 
Justification for 
Subsistence * 
Please fully justify your request for subsistence. 
Fully justify your request for subsistence detailing accommodation, food and local 
travel costs to be incurred as a result of the International Travel/visits detailed above. 
You must complete a provisional visit plan for the duration of the award presenting 
the details as follows as this will enable us to easily asses the eligibility of your 
application: 
 
i.e. Last name of individual 1: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost; Last name of individual 2: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost  i.e. Professor Smith: 2 months, Nov 2011, Taipei, £800; Professor Wang: 3 
months, April 2012, UK, £1,000 etc.  
Justification for 
Travel * 
Please provide justification for the amount requested. 
 
Provide justification for the amount requested for international travel to be undertaken 
and the cost of individual travel expenses. 
 
Note: international & national airfares are expected to be economy/APEX rates. 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
12 
You must complete a provisional visit plan for the duration of the award presenting 
the details as follows as this will enable us to easily asses the eligibility of your 
application:  
 
i.e. Last name of individual 1: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost; Last name of individual 2: Length of visit, Estimated date of visit, Destination, 
Cost  i.e. Professor Smith: 2 months, November 2011, Taipei, £600; Professor Wang: 
3 months, April 2012, UK, £900 etc. 
 
8.  Applicant Declaration * 
Please declare that: 
 
You have read the Terms and Conditions of Award under which Royal Society grants are awarded 
and, if a grant offer is made, you agree to abide by them. 
 
You have access to the necessary facilities to enable you to deliver the research proposed, and 
will continue to have access to the facilities for the duration of the project. 
 
You have agreed with your Head(s) of Department that you will be afforded sufficient time and 
resources to deliver the research project as described in this application. 
 
Please note that your declaration will be taken as a sign that your electronic signature is the legal 
equivalent to your wet signature on this application form 
 
9.  Head of Departmental Support and 10. Head of Department Overseas Support * 
The lead applicant/co-applicant must invite both Heads of Department from the overseas and UK 
organisation to provide their support.  
 
Please check which email address the Heads of Department would like to use, as they may already be 
registered on Flexi-Grant® and mistakes may lead to a delay in processing your application. 
 
The Heads of Department is expected to supply their contact details and tick Yes or No to the following 
statement: The applicant/ co-applicant will be provided with adequate space and access to resources 
within my department. 
 
4. Review Process 
 
 
All applications to the International Exchanges Scheme are reviewed and assessed by two 
members of the selection panel who have the most appropriate scientific expertise using the 
criteria detailed on page 6.   
 
It is expected that applicants will be notified of the outcome of their application by email 
approximately 4 months after the application deadline. 
 
Please be assured that the Royal Society specifically requests anyone involved in reviewing 
applications to consider them in confidence.   
 
 
 
 
 
 International Exchanges Standard 2018/R1 
13 
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicants fill in form online via Flexi-Grant® 
 
 
 
Both Head of Departments submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
UK Host Organisation’s approver submits 
their approval via Flexi-Grant® 
ROUND CLOSES 
Final submission to the Royal Society 
by deadline 15:00 UK time 
2018/R1: 13 March 2018 
2018/R2: 30 May 2018 
2018/R3: 2 October 2018 
 
 
Application is checked for eligibility  
and provision of support from both 
Heads of Department 
Rejection 
Application enters selection 
process 
AWARDED 
Non-
submissions: 
Rejection 
Rejection 
ROUND OPENS 
 
