
    
 
 
UK-Brazil Neglected Infectious Diseases Partnership 
Closing date: 16:00BST/12.00 Midday Brasilia Time 1st July 2015 
 
The Medical Research Council (MRC), the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC), 
the Brazilian State Funding Agencies: FACEPE; FAPEAL; FAPES; FAPEPI; FAPITEC; 
FUNDECT; 
FAPESP; 
FAPEAM; 
FAPEG; 
FAPEMIG; 
FAPDF; 
FAPERGS; 
FUNDAÇÃO 
ARAUCÁRIA; FAPERJ; FAPESC; FAPEAP, articulated by the National Council of State 
Funding Agencies (CONFAP) and the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and 
Technological Development (CNPq) invite applications to the UK-Brazil Neglected 
Infectious Diseases Partnership Call as part of the Newton Fund. 
 
This initiative will provide funding for collaborative research projects, focussed on 
neglected infectious diseases in Brazil. 
 
In total, up to £4.4m will be made available for this initiative. Up to £2.2m on the UK 
side (£2m from the MRC and £200k from the ESRC) with equivalent effort matched by 
the Brazilian funders. 
1 The Newton Fund 
The UK contribution will be channelled from the Newton Fund. The Newton Fund is an 
initiative intended to strengthen research and innovation partnerships between the UK 
and emerging knowledge economies. It was launched by the Chancellor in April 2014, 
and will deliver £375 million of funding over the course of five years. 
The Fund forms part of the UK‟s Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment 
which is monitored by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD). ODA funded activity focuses on outcomes that promote the long-term 
sustainable growth of countries on the OECD Development Assistance Committee list. 
Newton Fund countries represent a sub-set of this list. For more information, please visit 
the MRC Newton Fund page. 
The Newton Fund requires that the funding be awarded in a manner that fits with Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) guidelines. All applications under this call must therefore 
be compliant with these guidelines.  
2 Background 
Neglected Infectious Diseases are a group of diseases, caused by parasitic, bacterial, 
fungal, ectoparasitic or viral agents that cause substantial illness for more than one 
billion people globally1. They are so named due to the lack of large investment into the 
development of new drugs and vaccines to prevent their transmission and minimise their 
effects, and because existing programmes to control these diseases are not sufficient.  
A wide range of social and economic factors contribute to the persistence of Neglected 
Infectious Diseases.  The social and economic impacts of Neglected Infectious Diseases 
                                           
1 http://www.cdc.gov/globalhealth/ntd/ 
  
    
 
 
are also significant in terms of limiting ability to work and earn a living, produce food for 
the household and attend school.  
According to the WHO, several of the world‟s major Neglected Infectious Diseases occur 
in Brazil, with differing burdens between regions. Leishmaniasis, dengue fever and 
leprosy are present over almost the entire Brazilian territory2. However, the most 
significantly affected regions are those in the North and North East, which have both 
lowest Human Development Indices and the highest rates of Neglected Infectious 
Diseases.  
The launch of this call follows the success of the UK-Brazil Infectious Disease Workshop 
which took place in October 2014. The workshop was convened by the funding agencies 
participating in this partnership and attended by eminent Brazilian and British 
researchers in the field of infectious diseases in order to scope the development of this 
call. The outcome of this workshop was that this call should focus on neglected infectious 
diseases of relevance to Brazil but not be constrained in terms of the type of biomedical 
or social research. 
3 Scope 
Through this call, the funders are specifically looking for proposals that target 
biomedical, social and/or economic research studies in neglected infectious diseases that 
place a significant burden upon the poorest and most vulnerable in Brazilian society.  
Proposals may focus on, but are not limited to, the following disease areas: 
 
Dengue fever and other vector-borne diseases (e.g. Chikungunya) 
 
Leishmaniasis 
 
Chagas disease 
 
Leprosy 
 
Schistosomiasis 
 
Intestinal helminth infections 
 
Rotaviruses 
 
Emerging viruses 
Proposals with a focus upon HIV, TB and Malaria have been excluded from this call on 
the basis that they already receive relatively robust financial support.  
The funders welcome proposals across the full spectrum of research including, but not 
limited to: 
 
Basic, aetiological and exploratory research relevant to disease pathogens. 
 
Epidemiology, aetiology, biomarker; and  
 
Human Disease relevant vector control research. 
 
Host pathogen response, development of protective immune responses. 
 
Investigation of behavioral, social and/or economic determinants of the disease. 
 
Public health, prevention and health and social care. 
                                           
2 Rev. Inst. Med. Trop. S. Paulo vol 51 no 5 2009 
  
    
 
 
Beyond the expected outputs regarding the publication of scientific articles, thesis and 
dissertations, projects funded under this scheme should have scientific outcomes of 
relevance to the development of approaches addressing the prevention, treatment, 
diagnosis or control of neglected infectious diseases in Brazil.  
Research to understand and influence the relevant social and economic factors and 
implications surrounding these diseases is encouraged. For example, research questions 
looking into inequalities and access to healthcare, which plays in a crucial role in 
ensuring that these diseases are diagnosed and managed in the most effective manner.  
Given the funding available, it is not proposed that the research will involve large scale 
efficacy trials 
The MRC element of funding will not cover UK PhD studentships. 
The Brazilian element of funding may cover scholarships according to each FAP 
modalities available (PhD sandwich and Post-Doctoral). FAPs will cover the scholarship 
costs should applicants choose to include them in their application. Please note, the 
inclusion of scholarships is not mandatory.   
The development of interdisciplinary collaborations is particularly welcome (although not 
a requirement of the call).  
For further information, please read the FAQ document. 
4 Objectives and remit 
The UK-Brazil Neglected Infectious Diseases Partnership initiative aims to provide 
support for joint Brazilian and UK working in the area of neglected infectious disease 
research.  
The objective is to deliver significant 2-3 year research funding for internationally 
competitive and innovative collaborative projects between scientists from Brazil and the 
UK that will allow the pursuit of shared research interests.   
5 Funding available 
The MRC will make up to £2.0m available for this scheme with ESRC contributing an 
additional £200k on the UK side to support high quality social science aspects of 
successful proposals. These funds will be made available to the UK collaborators. 
The £2.2m made available by the UK funders will be matched with equivalent effort from 
the Brazilian FAPs, who will fund the Brazilian collaborators. 
The agencies would expect to fund approximately 8-12 projects in total. The size of the 
grants will vary according to the needs of each research project. 
Applicants do not need to request equal amounts from both sides. The difference in 
values should reflect the difference in costs covered and local prices. The agencies also 
expect the costs on each side to accurately reflect the research effort to be carried out. 
What is expected is that the research effort on both sides be comparable. 
For further information on eligible costs, please read the FAQ. 
  
    
 
 
6 Eligibility 
This call funds partnership working between UK and Brazil based researchers. 
For support under this call, applicants must be eligible to apply for funding from their 
respective country‟s funding agency: 
6.1. For the UK participants, standard RCUK/MRC eligibility criteria as described in the 
Guidance for Applicants and RCUK website will apply. MRC Units and Institutes are also 
eligible to apply to this call. 
6.2. Brazilian applicants should refer to CONFAP‟s eligibility rules for this call. Please 
contact 
mrc-confap-cnpq@cnpq.br 
or 
(for 
applicants 
applying 
to 
FAPESP) 
chamada_nf_neglected_diseases@fapesp.br for further guidance relating to eligibility 
queries. 
Please note it is important to check that the relevant Brazilian state funding 
agency (“FAP”) is participating in this call – not all Brazilian FAPs have agreed 
to 
participate. 
The 
list 
of 
participating 
FAPs 
can 
be 
found 
http://confap.org.br/news/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/Participating-FAPs-MRC-
CONFAP-CNPq-Call.pdf.  
6.3. Applicants from the State of São Paulo, Brazil who are interested in applying to this 
call are encouraged to contact FAPESP before starting to develop a joint proposal in 
order to understand the requirements for proposal qualification practiced by FAPESP for 
Thematic Grants (announced at http://www.fapesp.br/176). Failure to observe this 
procedure may result in the rejection of the proposal, without review. Please 
also consult the FAPESP Guidelines associated with this call: www.fapesp.br/9397. 
7 Intention to submit 
In order to identify peer reviewers and convene assessment panels in advance, it is 
important that researchers indicate their intention to submit a proposal. Please email a 
preliminary indication as outlined below by 1st of June to the following addresses: 
UK applicants: international@headoffice.mrc.ac.uk  
Brazilian applicants: mrc-confap-cnpq@cnpq.br  
São Paulo applicants: chamada_nf_neglected_diseases@fapesp.br  
Applicant Role 
 
Name 
Organisation 
Principal Investigator (UK)  
 
 
 
Principal Investigator (Brazil) 
 
 
 
List of all Co-Investigators  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Project Title 
 
 
  
    
 
 
 
Summary of proposed 
project (maximum 200 
words. Please note: this will 
be used when approaching 
potential reviewers in the first 
instance) 
 
 
8 How to apply 
Once the collaboration is formed, UK and Brazilian applicants must apply separately to 
their respective funding agencies for the funding component requested within each 
country, but this must be based around a common scientific plan. Both partners must 
therefore submit an identical joint Case for Support (“Projeto de Pesquisa”) written in 
English. Failure to submit a valid application to both sponsors, unless exceptionally 
approved and agreed between the sponsors, will invalidate both submissions. 
Applications from the UK Principal Investigator should be submitted to the UK Research 
Councils‟ Joint electronic Submission (Je-S) System. UK applicants must complete all 
sections required for a standard MRC Research Grant proposal. CV‟s including a concise 
publication list for each of the named investigators should be included for all 
investigators (based in Brazil and the UK).  
Please also fill in and submit the „Joint Funding Summary‟ form. Please upload this under 
the attachment type „Letter of Support‟. 
Justification of Resources, Pathways to Impact and Data Management Plan documents 
must also be attached to the Je-S application. Further guidance can be found in the MRC 
Guidance for Applicants. For further information, please read the FAQ document. 
Brazilian Principal Investigators must submit an identical case for support (“Projeto de 
pesquisa”) written in English to CNPq (http://picc.cnpq.br/efomento/form/47-559) 
available from May the 15th or – if the PI is from São Paulo State - submit to through the 
SAGE and should observe its eligibility rules as described at the FAPESP‟s guidelines 
(http://www.fapesp.br/9397). 
The funding agencies will not play a further role in linking UK and Brazilian research 
groups beyond the organisation of the workshop that took place in October. It is 
important to note, however, that this is an open call: applicants do not need to have 
attended the workshop in order to apply. 
9 Key Dates    
Closing Date for investigators to 
indicate their intention to submit a 
proposal (item 7, above) 
1st June 2015 
Closing Date for investigators to 
submit proposal to MRS, FAPESP and 
CONFAP 
1st July 2015 
16:00BST/12.00 Midday Brasilia Time 
  
    
 
 
Panel Meeting 
October 2015 
Successful proposals announced 
November 2015 
 
 
 
 
10 Grant Start Dates 
Due to the tight timescales and funding restrictions of the Newton Fund, UK grants 
must start by 15th January 2016; i.e. the „start confirmation‟ must be submitted by 
15th January 2016 (this is shorter than the standard 42 days for Research Council 
grants).  
Please refer to the MRC Applicants Handbook for information on what the starting 
procedure entails; please inform the relevant support staff in your organisation of this 
requirement to ensure the project starts on time. 
 
11 Additional Guidance for “Case for Support” and “Justification of Resources” 
The UK and Brazilian applicants should submit a joint Case for Support, written in 
English. For the UK applicants this must be attached as a PDF to the J-eS application. 
Briefly, the case for support may be up to 8 pages in length, including 1 page for 
references, using Arial 11pt typeface with margins of 2cms on all sides. In your case for 
support, you should address each of the following headings: 
 
Title 
 
Importance of the research 
 
Scientific potential and expected outcomes 
 
People and track record 
 
Research environment 
 
Research plans and deliverables 
 
Consideration of ethical, governance and IP issues around the project 
 
Data preservation, exploitation and dissemination 
 
In addition, applicants must describe how the proposed UK funded work is ODA 
compliant [up to 150 words]. This section will be made publicly available. For 
further 
information 
on 
ODA, 
please 
visit: 
http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/RCUK-
prod/assets/documents/international/ODAguidanceRCUKspecific.pdf 
Generic Guidance on content under each of these headings can be found in the MRC 
applicant‟s handbook. 
12 Evaluation process 
Following submission, peer-review will be undertaken by the funding agencies. To be 
funded, proposals must be internationally competitive and at a standard equivalent to 
that normally expected to be supported by each funding organisation. 
  
    
 
 
Key assessment criteria for the submissions will be: 
 
Significance and Impact 
 
Scientific Rationale: novelty, importance and timeliness of the research; 
 
Design and Feasibility of the Project Plan (including the appropriateness of the 
research design, work plan, research team); 
 
Partnership: including strength and clarity of collaborations and opportunities 
provided, quality of the project management structure proposed; 
 
Quality and suitability of the research environment and of the facilities; 
 
Value for money for Brazilian and UK science; 
 
Ethical considerations and governance arrangements. 
 
ODA compliance. 
Applications received and comments from all peer-reviewers will be assessed by a joint 
Research Panel in October.  
13 Contacts and guidance 
For 
further 
information, 
UK 
applicants 
should 
contact 
Alex 
Harris:  
international@headoffice.mrc.ac.uk 
For further information, Brazilian applicants:  
a) from São Paulo should contact: chamada_nf_neglected_diseases@fapesp.br 
b) from other States:  mrc-confap-cnpq@cnpq.br  
  
 
 
CHAMADA DE PROJETOS CONFAP-ESRC-MRC-BBSRC - 2015 
ANÚNCIO DOS RESULTADOS 
Este é o anúncio oficial dos resultados das Chamadas de Projetos lançadas em 2015, 
pelo CONFAP em parceria MRC, ESRC e BBSR, no âmbito do Programa do Fundo 
Newton. Os projetos listados a seguir nas tabelas 1, 2 e 3 foram recomendados pelo 
comitê de especialistas do Painel Internacional e serão financiados a partir de 2016 
por até três anos. Os outros projetos que não constam das listas ou não foram 
recomendados pelo Painel ou não serão financiados por limitação do valor 
estabelecido na Chamada.   
A Chamada CONFAP-MRC tem os resultados na Tabela 1.  
TABELA 1 
 
  
 
 
A Chamada CONFAP-ESRC tem os resultados na Tabela 2. 
TABELA 2 
 
 
A Chamada CONFAP-BBSRC tem os resultados na Tabela 3. 
TABELA 3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
CONFAP-ESRC-MRC-BBSRC CALL FOR PROJETCS - 2015 
ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESULTS 
This is to announce the results of the Call for Proposals launched in 2015, by CONFAP, 
MRC, ESRC and BBSRC, under the auspices of Newton Fund. The projects listed 
below on tables 1, 2 and 3 were recommended by the International Panel of peer 
review process and will be funded, from 2016 for up to three years. The others projects 
which are not in the lists were either not recommended or exceeded the Call budget.   
The Call CONFAP-MRC presented the results on Table 1.  
TABLE 1 
 
  
 
 
The Call CONFAP-ESRC presented the results on Table 2. 
TABLE 2 
 
 
The Call CONFAP-BBSRC presented the results on Table 3. 
TABLE 3 
 
 
 
 
 
