
 
 
 
 
CONFAP – THE UK ACADEMIES 
Fellowships, Research Mobility, and 
Young Investigator Awards for UK 
researchers in Brazil 
 
 
The third round opens on August 15th, 2016 for applications and will close on October 24rd, 2016 
at 12.00 midday Brasília Time.  
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council (CONFAP), are launching 
a call for proposal offering support to researchers based in UK Universities and Research 
Institutions, who are willing to working in research in Brazil, in collaboration with local 
colleagues.  
 
The call offers support for researchers in the UK through:  
 
a) Fellowships;  
b) Research Mobility Grants, and,  
c) In the case of UK young researchers aiming at working in universities and research 
institutes in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, this call also offer the opportunity of Young 
Investigator Grants comprising a scholarship plus a research funding grant.  
 
These activities are under the auspice of the Newton Fund, an initiative that aims to develop the 
long-term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research, 
innovation capacities, and is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance commitment.  
 
These awards offer an opportunity for the UK researcher to develop the strengths and capabilities 
of their research groups through training, collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some 
of the best research groups in the Brazil.  
 
For further information, please contact fundonewton@confap.org.br. For researchers aiming at 
developing 
activities 
in 
the 
State 
of 
São 
Paulo, 
Brazil, 
please 
contact 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br.  
  
  
 
 
a) How to apply  
 
a) For researchers outside the State of São Paulo applications are available at: 
http://sigconfap.ledes.net (available from 1st of September 2016).  
b) Researchers from the State of São Paulo, or Young Investigators from the UK aiming at 
receiving funds from FAPESP to work in a university or research institute in the state of São 
Paulo, Brazil, must send proposals directly to FAPESP. Please follow the specific guidelines 
for FAPESP at http://www.fapesp.br/en/8951.  
 
2. Eligibility  
 
a)  The applicants must hold a PhD degree:  
a.1) Young researchers are considered to hold a PhD degree from 2 years to 7 years.  
a.2) Senior researchers must hold a PhD degree for over 7 years.  
b) The applicants must have a Brazilian-based collaborator as their co-applicant (host 
researcher).  
c) The applicants must hold a permanent academic post or postdoctoral fellowship/position in 
the UK which extends beyond the period of the requested grant;  
d) UK researchers from the natural sciences, engineering, medical sciences (including clinical 
or patient-oriented research), social sciences and humanities fields, are eligible to apply for 
support.  
e) For submissions to FAPESP the additional criteria hold, according to the type of support 
aimed at:  
 
e.1) Research Fellowships: the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-applicant) 
in charge of an ongoing grant of the following types: Thematic, Young Investigator, or Research, 
Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centres. Please note that support will be through 
FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grants (http://www.fapesp.br/en/visiting) 
e.2) Researcher Mobility, support will also be through Visiting Researcher Grants 
(http://www.fapesp.br/en/visiting): there must be a host researcher (co-applicant) in the State of 
São Paulo, but not necessarily in charge of an ongoing FAPESP grant.  
 
e.3) Young Investigator Awards: the UK applicant must have a PhD or equivalent title, an 
outstanding research track record, and typically 2-5 years post-doctoral experience in a research 
group in the UK.  
 
3. Types of grants  
 
3.1 Fellowships  
 
3.1.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the state of 
São Paulo  
 
Fellowship support is offered through two categories:  
  
 
 
 
a) For Young Researchers:  
 
A monthly scholarship of R$ 7,000.00  
 
Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance  
 
Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 
Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
b) For Senior Researchers:  
 
A monthly scholarship of R$ 10,000.00  
 
Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance  
 
Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 
Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
 
3.1.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo  
 
In the state of São Paulo fellowship support is offered through FAPESP Visiting Researcher 
Grant and as mentioned, the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in 
charge of an ongoing grant of the following types: Thematic, Young Investigator, or Research, 
Innovation, 
and 
Diffusion 
of 
Knowledge 
Centres 
(more 
details 
at 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/visiting):  
 
 
A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.360,20 (Young Researcher) to R$ 
15.400,50 (Full Professor). The level of payment is to be suggested by the host investigator 
and confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 
Airline ticket and health insurance.  
 
Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher.  
 
Grant to the host PI with whom the visitor will be associated: the host PI may request FAPESP 
supplementary funds up to R$ 25.000 for every six months of stay of the visitor. These funds 
are to be used for research related expenses with to consumables, services, and travel.  
 
3.2 
Research Mobility support  
 
3.2.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the state of 
São Paulo  
 
Two types of mission can be considered:  
 
  
 
 
a) Mission up to fifteen days:  
 
Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance.  
 
Daily support in a value defined by the State Funding Agencies (FAPs)  
b) Mission from sixteen days to three months:  
 
Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance.  
 
A monthly scholarship in the amount of R$ 7.000 monthly.  
 
3.2.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo  
 
Two types of mission can be considered:  
 
a) Mission from seven days to up to one month: 
 
Airline ticket and health insurance.  
 
Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of values.  
b) Mission from one month to twelve months 
 
Airline ticket and health insurance.  
 
A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.360,20 (Young Researcher) to R$ 
15.400,50 (Full Professor). The level is to be suggested by the host investigator and confirmed 
by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 
3.3 Young Investigator Award (only for FAPESP applicants) 
 
In addition to the above, for young investigators from the UK to start a research career in a 
university or research institution in the State of São Paulo, FAPESP offers, as part of the State of 
São Paulo side matching funds, an opportunity through its Young Investigator Awards. A 
FAPESP Young Investigator Award, a 4-year grant, comprises funds for (more details at 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/4479):  
 
 
Equipment, consumables, services, and travel necessary to the 4-year research project.  
 
A monthly scholarship for the Young Investigator of R$ R$ 7.748,40 (tax-free) to be paid for 
up to four years or until he/she obtains a permanent position in a university or research 
institution in the State of São Paulo. 
  
 
A quota of scholarships for undergraduate students who will work in parts of the research 
project (Scientific Initiation) and a quota of MSc and Direct Doctorate scholarships for 
graduate students, to be selected and supervised by the Young Investigator.  
 
  
 
 
 
In addition to the approved budget for the discriminated items mentioned above FAPESP 
includes a value equal to 15% as an overhead to be used in direct research infrastructure or 
non-anticipated expenses (e.g. travel, visitors,..) necessary for the project, and another 10% 
that is awarded as an institutional overhead.  
 
 
4. Selection criteria  
 
All applications will be assessed through a peer review process based on the following criteria:  
 
a) The quality of the proposed research project.  
b) The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
c) The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
d) The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Brazilian-based co-applicant and Brazilian 
host organization in the area of proposed research.  
e) The additional benefits for the Brazilian based Co-applicant and host organization.  
f) Evidence that the support will lead to a long-term collaboration beyond the tenure of the award.  
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
