
 
 
Tel +32 (0)2 221 81 81 • Fax +32 (0)2 221 81 74   Postal address: IMI JU • TO56 • 1049 Brussels • Belgium 
infodesk@imi.europa.eu • www.imi.europa.eu 
 Visiting address: Ave de la Toison d’Or 56-60 • 1060 Brussels • Belgium  
 
   
 
 
IMI2  
21st Call for proposals 
Version 1.1, dated 05/03/2020, addressing a clerical error on page 12 of this document and 
further confirming that applicants should submit a proposal and that the page limit for 
proposals is 70 pages  
Annex II to the Decision of the IMI2 JU Governing Board No.  IMI2-GB-DEC-2020-08 adopted 
on 28/02/2020 
Document reference: Ares(2020)1304391 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 2  
Contents 
CONTENTS ........................................................................................................................................................ 2 
INTRODUCTION ................................................................................................................................................ 3 
DEVELOPMENT OF THERAPEUTICS AND DIAGNOSTICS COMBATTING CORONAVIRUS 
INFECTIONS ...................................................................................................................................................... 5 
CONDITIONS FOR THIS CALL FOR PROPOSAL ........................................................................................ 12 
LIST OF ACRONYMS ..................................................................................................................................... 18 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 3  
Introduction 
The Innovative Medicines Initiative is a jointly funded partnership between the European Union, represented by the 
European Commission, and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA). 
The Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2 JU) has been created1 following the principles below: 
Research related to the future of medicine should be undertaken in areas where societal, public health and 
biomedical industry competitiveness goals are aligned and require the pooling of resources and greater 
collaboration between the public and private sectors, with the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs). 
The scope of the initiative should be expanded to all areas of life science research and innovation. 
The areas should be of public health interest, as identified by the World Health Organisation (WHO) report on 
priority medicines for Europe and the World2. 
The IMI2 JU objectives are usually implemented through Research and Innovation Actions (RIAs), and 
Coordination and Support Actions (CSAs) where public and private partners collaborate, joining their expertise, 
knowledge and resources.  
The initiative should therefore seek to involve a broader range of partners, including mid-sized companies3, from 
different sectors e.g. biomedical imaging, medical information technology, diagnostic and/or animal health 
industries. Involving the wider community in this way should help to advance the development of new approaches 
and technologies for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases with high impact on public health. 
The IMI2 Strategic Research Agenda (SRA)4 is the main reference for the implementation of research priorities for 
IMI2 JU. The scientific priorities for 2020 for IMI2 JU have been prepared based on the SRA. 
Applicant consortia are invited to submit a proposal which should address at least one of the objectives of the topic. 
The size and composition of each consortium should be adapted so as to respond to the scientific goals and the 
expected key deliverables. 
Applicant consortia, during all stages of the evaluation process, must consider the nature and dimension of the IMI2 
JU programme as a public-private collaboration. 
While preparing their proposals, applicant consortia should ensure that the needs of patients are adequately 
addressed and, where appropriate, patient involvement is encouraged. Applicants should ensure that gender 
dimensions are also considered. Synergies and complementarities with other national and international projects 
and initiatives should be explored in order to avoid duplication of efforts and to create collaboration at a global level 
to maximise European added value in health research. Where appropriate, the involvement of regulators is also 
strongly encouraged.  
                                                      
1 Council Regulation (EU) No 557/2014 of 6 May 2014 establishing the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking (IMI2 JU), OJ L 169, 
7.6.2014, p. 54–76. 
2 http://www.who.int/medicines/areas/priority_medicines/en/ 
3 Under IMI2 JU, mid-sized companies having an annual turnover of E 
UR 500 million or less not being affiliated entities of companies with an annual turnover of more than 500 million; the definition of ‘affiliated 
entities’ within the meaning of Article 2(1)(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1290/2013 applies mutatis mutandis. Where established in an EU Member 
State or an associated country, are eligible for funding. 
4 http://www.imi.europa.eu/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/About-IMI/research-agenda/IMI2_SRA_March2014.pdf 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 4  
Applicant consortia shall ensure that where relevant their proposals are in compliance with the General Data 
Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/6795 and Clinical Trial Regulation (EU) 536/20146 (and/or Directive 2001/20/EC7) 
and any relevant legislation8. 
Before submitting a proposal, applicant consortia should familiarise themselves with all Call documents such as the 
IMI2 JU Manual for submission, evaluation and grant award9, and the IMI2 evaluation criteria. Applicants should 
refer to the specific templates and evaluation procedures associated with the topic type Research and Innovation 
Actions (RIA).  
 
 
                                                      
5 Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to 
the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection 
Regulation), OJ L 119, 4.5.2016, p. 1–88. 
6 Regulation (EU) No 536/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on clinical trials on medicinal products for human 
use, and repealing Directive 2001/20/EC, OJ L 158, 27.5.2014, p. 1-76.  
7 Directive 2001/20/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 April 2001 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and 
administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the implementation of good clinical practice in the conduct of clinical trials on 
medicinal products for human use (the "Clinical Trials Directive), OJ L 121, 1.5.2001, p. 34.  
8 Directive 95/46/EC on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data and 
implementing national laws, OJ L 281, 23.11.1995, p. 31–50.  
9 https://www.imi.europa.eu/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/apply-for-funding/call-
documents/imi2/IMI2_ManualForSubmission_v1.7_November2018.pdf  
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 5  
Development of therapeutics and diagnostics combatting 
coronavirus infections 
Topic details 
Topic code 
IMI2-2020-21-01 
Action type 
Research and Innovation Action (RIA) 
Submission and evaluation process 
Single stage 
IMI2 Strategic Research Agenda - Axis of Research 
Adoption of innovative clinical trial paradigms 
IMI2 Strategic Research Agenda - Health Priority 
Other 
Specific challenges to be addressed by public-private collaborative research 
Coronaviruses (CoV) are a large family of enveloped positive-stranded RNA viruses that typically result in 
respiratory and enteric infections. CoV are zoonotic in origin, but they can evolve into a strain that can infect human 
beings leading to fatal illness. Typically, CoV infections were considered relatively benign to humans before the 
severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS-CoV) outbreak in 2002/2003 in China, and the Middle East respiratory 
syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV) outbreak in 2012 in the Middle Eastern countries. 
On 31 December 2019, the local authorities of Wuhan, Hubei province, China, reported a cluster of pneumonia 
cases of unknown origin. On 9 January 2020, the China Centre for Disease Control reported a novel coronavirus - 
now referred as SARS-CoV-2 to be the causative agent. 
As of 24 February 2020, 79 360 cases of novel coronavirus infection COVID-19 (in accordance with the applied 
case definitions in the affected countries) have been reported, including 2 618 deaths. The disease has already 
spread to 31 countries outside China, with new cases continuing to emerge daily [1]. The COVID-19 outbreak has 
been declared by WHO as a Public Health Emergency of International Concern according to the International 
Health Regulation [2]. 
Bearing in mind that the SARS-CoV epidemic in 2003 resulted in over 8 000 cases reported (and a 10% fatality 
ratio), it is crucial to rapidly gain a better understanding of the newly-identified virus and the virus family that it 
represents, especially in relation to potential clinical and public health measures that can be put to immediate use 
to improve patients’ health and/or contain the spread of COVID-19. 
Considering the public health and humanitarian implications, there is a need for all stakeholders across the public 
and private sectors to collaborate in global efforts to care for those affected, contain the outbreak, and develop the 
much-needed resources to prepare for the future. A collaboration of private companies, academia, international 
organisations, public bodies etc. has the potential to accelerate the development of therapeutics and diagnostics to 
tackle the current and future outbreaks. The actions resulting from this Call will contribute to the pan-European 
efforts responding to this Public Health Emergency and address one of the eight immediate research actions 
agreed at the WHO global research and innovation forum held on 11-12 February 2020 [3].  
Scope 
Proposals submitted under this topic are expected to advance our knowledge of SARS-CoV-2 specifically and the 
wider coronavirus family in general with the aim of contributing to an efficient patient management and/or public 
health preparedness and response to current and future outbreaks of coronavirus infection.  
Considering that this is a newly-identified virus, the scope of this topic remains broad and must address at least 
one of the following objectives: 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 6  
 
Development of antivirals as well as other types of therapeutics to address a rapid response to the 
current COVID-19 outbreak 
Relevant “clinical ready”-assets include approved therapies or compounds in development, which could be 
repurposed for use in treating patients with the coronavirus. For example, this could include (but is not limited 
to), angiotensin-converting-enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, protease inhibitors or immunotherapies (for example 
antibodies/antibody-like molecules) that could be relevant in the context of CoV. If repurposing is proposed, this 
should be supported by a preliminary rationale of the compound’s potential efficacy against COVID-19. Where 
relevant, evidence of regulatory and ethics approvals for the investigational products included in the study(ies) 
must be presented. 
 
Development of therapeutics to address the current and/or future coronavirus outbreaks Identification of 
new potential assets and approaches that could be utilised including preventive strategies and combination 
approaches, and that could also address potential resistance. This may also include the optimisation of 
promising treatments used in rapid response (e.g. reformulation). 
 
Development of diagnostics, ensuring rapid evaluation of candidates based on existing technologies.  
Diagnostic tests will be essential for clinical trials of new or repurposed drugs, to help stratify patients and 
assess treatment efficiency (surrogate endpoint such as viral clearance).  
 
 
Development of fast and reliable tools that go beyond the state of the art for detection of COVID-19 
carriers and symptomatic individuals suspected of COVID-19 infection 
These are essential and of utmost importance to manage the outbreak, isolate patients at risk and treat people 
accordingly. It is crucial to differentiate and identify respiratory pathogens with similar clinical symptoms (e.g. 
flu, respiratory syncytial virus, other viruses or bacteria) and/or detect emerging pathogens such as SARS-
CoV-2. This can be achieved through point-of-care (POC) testing or centralised testing. 
Preventive vaccines are specifically excluded from the scope of the Call. 
For increased impact, proposals should build on promising avenues from previous or ongoing research, taking into 
account the recommendations from the WHO and ensuring complementarity and ideally synergy with the work 
carried out under the auspices of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), Wellcome, Biomedical 
Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA), the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Global 
Research Collaboration for Infectious Disease Preparedness (GloPID-R) and H2020 Call SC1-PHE-
CORONAVIRUS-2020.  
The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has activated its plan for emerging health threats, which includes the 
possibility for fast-tracked Scientific Advice [4]. Proposals covering investigation of a therapeutic should engage 
with the EMA to ensure adequacy from a regulatory point of view. 
Collaboration agreement(s) 
To ensure the interactions between actions funded under this Call, the selected consortia are expected to 
cooperate with each other and share their learnings for the purpose of achieving the objectives of their respective 
actions, in order to maximise the impact. Therefore, all grants awarded under this Call will be complementary 
grants. The respective options under Article 2, Article 31.6 and Article 41.4 of the IMI2 JU Model Grant 
Agreement10 will apply. Accordingly, the relevant consortia will conclude collaboration agreement(s) to ensure the 
exchange of relevant information, exploration of synergies, and collaboration where appropriate. 
 
                                                      
10 See: https://www.imi.europa.eu/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/reference-documents/h2020-mga-imi_en_v5.pdf  
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 7  
Expected key deliverables 
Each proposal must include at least one of the following key deliverables: 
 
antivirals as well as other types of therapeutics to be used in the current outbreak, including preventive and 
symptomatic treatments; 
 
novel therapeutics including combination treatments to ensure appropriate treatment for current and/or future 
outbreaks and/or to prevent resistance; 
 
diagnostics. 
In the context of achieving the above deliverables, i.e. development of therapeutics and diagnostics, it is 
recognised that studies related to the understanding of the mechanism of action will generate new knowledge on 
the virology, immunology and pathogenesis of the coronavirus, and that new analytical technologies and reagents 
may be developed. 
When relevant, deliverables should include: 
 
Hit identification of suitable assets (e.g. existing libraries, approved drugs and assets that have passed phase 1 
for repurposing; protease and (non)-nucleoside inhibitors) against SARS-CoV-2 and/or pan-coronavirus; 
implementation of high-throughput screening assays in collaboration with Europe-based centres of excellence. 
 
Lead optimisation: initiating target-based discovery programmes based for instance on literature for the 
identification of promising approaches. Proof of Concept: pre-clinical animal studies and clinical studies 
including at least first in human (FIH) and phase 2A and/or 2B studies for both repurposed and new molecular 
entities.  
For the clinical studies applicants should consider the Therapeutic Trial Synopsis in the WHO’s Global 
Research and Innovation Blueprint on the novel Coronavirus COVID-19 [3].  
 
Diagnostics and associated enablers (e.g. production of antibodies and viral proteins); characterisation of nCoV 
strains and evolution; sustainability plans for data repositories, sample repositories etc.; documentation 
supporting regulatory submission. 
Expected impact 
Proposals must be timely, with rapid activation, to enable early and valuable outcomes to be established. 
On the basis of the proposed activities, applicants should describe how the outputs of the project will contribute to 
the following impacts and include wherever possible targets and metrics to measure them: 
 
fast-track development and availability of therapeutics and/or diagnostics to be used in the clinical 
management of patients infected by COVID-19 and/or future outbreaks of coronaviruses, and to ensure that a 
variety of drugs are available for patients, including tackling resistance, and combination therapy; 
 
contribution to public health preparedness and response in the context of the ongoing epidemic of COVID-19 
and/or future outbreaks of pan-coronaviruses; 
 
significant impact on global health, both at the individual and the public health level by leading to results that 
have a direct impact on people at risk of exposure to coronavirus or on patients suffering from coronavirus 
disease. 
To ensure maximum impact for patients, applicants should demonstrate their operational capacity as well as their 
readiness and access to asset(s) to progress through clinical development and reach patients as rapidly as 
possible. 
Although actions to be funded should be centred around SARS-CoV-2 and CoV, applicants should explain how the 
knowledge and new concepts arising from the action can be applied in more general terms to the preparedness 
strategy that could be applied to new outbreaks as a rapid response. 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 8  
In addition, considering the unknown evolution of this COVID-19 outbreak, applicants should develop strategies on 
how to develop their proposals and continuity plans, allocate their funds and implement sustainability measures in 
the different scenarios that could occur: 1) rapid regression of the epidemic with no patients left for clinical trials, 2) 
pandemic, 3) seasonal reoccurrence as typically seen with influenza.  
Applicants must maximise the IMI2 JU public-private partnership value by harnessing support from different 
stakeholders, including the mobilisation of resources through the inclusion of contributing partners11, providing 
contributions (in kind and/or financial), to reflect the public-private character of IMI2 JU actions. 
To maximise the potential for public health impact, applicants should outline in their proposals a strategy for 
engagement with patients, healthcare professional associations, healthcare providers, and public health bodies 
where relevant 
Beneficiaries in grants awarded under this topic must make available their research data, at the latest within 30 
days after it has been generated, through open access or, if agreed by the IMI2 JU or the European Commission, 
by giving access rights to those third parties that need the research data to address the public health emergency. 
Therefore, the relevant option (1c) of Article 29.3 of the Grant Agreement shall apply. 
Potential synergies with existing consortia 
Synergies and complementarities are expected with relevant national, European and non-European initiatives 
(including suitable biological and medical sciences research infrastructures12) in order to incorporate past 
achievements, available data and lessons learnt where possible, thus avoiding unnecessary overlap, and 
duplication of efforts and funding. In particular, applicants are expected to collaborate with any relevant project or 
initiative targeting the current COVID-19 outbreak supported by, including but not restricting to, the European 
Commission (H2020 call SC1-PHE-CORONAVIRUS-2020), CEPI, Wellcome, BARDA, The Bill and Melinda Gates 
Foundation, GloPID-R, and others. 
Applicants should also consider building on achievements of relevant IMI projects such as the COMBACTE 
projects, ZAPI, and the European Lead Factory (ELF/ESCULAB). 
Where relevant applicants might consider the advantages of the use of the European supercomputing centres 
(PRACE network) to accelerate the process of diagnosis and therapeutics research, using the exiting high-end 
computing, data and simulation resources. 
Indicative duration of the action 
Proposals should include a proposed duration for the action in relation to the activities and expected impact. 
Successful applicants may request a starting date prior the entry into force of the GA, but no earlier than the date of 
grant proposal submission. 
 
                                                      
11 Contributing partners: EFPIA companies or organisations associated to EFPIA, and Associated Partners to IMI2 JU contributing resources to 
the action may report it as their in-kind or financial contribution to the IMI2 JU. If the contributing entity is not yet an affiliate or a constituent 
entity of an IMI2 Member other than the Union (i.e. EFPIA), or an Associated Partner at the time of the proposal submission, and the proposal is 
selected for funding, such a legal entity is invited to become an affiliate or a constituent entity of an IMI2 Member, other than the Union, or an 
Associated Partner in accordance with the IMI2 JU Statutes prior to the signature of the relevant Grant Agreement. 
12 http://www.corbel-project.eu/about-corbel/research-infrastructures.html 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 9  
Indicative budget 
Applicant consortia will be competing for the maximum total financial contribution from IMI2 JU up to  
EUR 45 000 000. 
Within this budgetary envelope, each proposal must include a sound justification of the requested IMI2 JU financial 
contribution. This should take into account the proposed in-kind contributions from contributing partners that will 
complement the IMI2 JU financial contribution, i.e. EFPIA constituents or affiliated entities and/or, when relevant, 
IMI2 JU Associated Partners. 
All proposals submitted under this Call and evaluated above the threshold will be ranked in one single list. 
Proposals will be invited in order of ranking to prepare a Grant Agreement within the limits of the available overall 
budget. 
Applicant consortium 
Applicant consortia are expected to address at least one of the objectives of the topic and demonstrate the 
necessary expertise and access to facilities to meet the relevant key deliverables and ensure the expected impact. 
The size and composition of each consortium should be adapted so as to respond to the objectives and the key 
deliverables of the Call while ensuring its manageability. 
In accordance with the Horizon 2020 Rules for Participation, in order to be eligible, a proposal must be made by a 
consortium of at least three independent legal entities, each established in a different Member State or associated 
country. 
While preparing their proposals, applicant consortia should ensure that needs of patients are adequately addressed 
and, where appropriate, patient involvement is encouraged. 
Single stage proposal 
While preparing their proposal, applicants are requested to pay due attention to all the following points. 
Data management 
In their proposal, applicants should give due visibility to data management including use of the data standards. A 
full 'data management plan' (DMP) as a distinct deliverable must be delivered within the first 6 months of the action. 
The DMP needs to be kept up to date with the needs of the action and as such be updated as necessary during its 
lifetime.13 
Applicants should be aware that data must be deposited in a relevant established international data platform, such 
as the one by WHO and/or European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL). 
Dissemination, exploitation and communication 
In their proposal, applicants must provide a draft plan for the exploitation and dissemination of results. A full plan as 
a distinct deliverable must be delivered within the first 6 months of the project.14 The proposed communication 
                                                      
13 Guidance on data management is available at https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/docs/h2020-funding-guide/cross-cutting-
issues/open-access-data-management/data-management_en.htm  
14 As an additional dissemination obligation under Article 29.1 of the IMI2 JU Grant Agreement will apply 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 10  
measures for promoting the action and its findings during the period of the grant should also be described and 
could include a possible public event to showcase the results of the action. 
Applicants should be aware that beneficiaries in grants awarded in this Call for proposals are expected to apply the 
principles established in the Statement on Data Sharing in Public Health Emergency. 
Sustainability 
In their proposal, applicants must describe a sustainability plan beyond the end of the Grant Agreement 
This plan may be updated during the action lifetime and could include: 
 
identification of results that may need sustainability solutions; 
 
identification of potential end-users for these results; 
 
a proposed sustainability roadmap. 
The proposed plan should also ensure that the new concepts for rapid response developed in the projects can be 
applied to new outbreak situations. 
Sufficient resources should be set aside for activities related to the sustainability of the project results. This may 
involve engaging with suitable biological and medical sciences research infrastructures (RIs).15 
Patient and healthcare provider engagement 
Applicants are encouraged to include a strategy to engage with patients, learned societies and healthcare 
providers as relevant to ensure the project results impact on healthcare practices. 
Regulatory strategy 
Applicants are expected to have a strategy for the translation of the relevant outputs into regulatory practice to 
promote the uptake of the results, e.g. qualification advice, qualification opinion when relevant. A plan for 
interactions with regulatory agencies/health technology assessment bodies /payers, with relevant milestones and 
sufficient resources, should therefore be proposed. 
 
 
 
                                                      
15 http://www.corbel-project.eu/about-corbel/research-infrastructures.html  
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 11  
References 
[1] ECDC. Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) Situation - Worldwide. 2020.  
https://www.ecdc.europa.eu/en/geographical-distribution-2019-ncov-cases 
[2] World Health Organisation. Statement on the second meeting of the International Health Regulations 
(2005) Emergency Committee regarding the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). 2020. 
https://www.who.int/news-room/detail/30-01-2020-statement-on-the-second-meeting-of-the-international-
health-regulations-(2005)-emergency-committee-regarding-the-outbreak-of-novel-coronavirus-(2019-ncov) 
[3] World Health Organisation. 2019 Novel Coronavirus: Global Research and Innovation Blueprint. 2020. 
https://www.who.int/blueprint/priority-diseases/key-action/novel-coronavirus/en/  
[4] EMA to support development of vaccines and treatments for novel coronavirus 
https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/news/ema-support-development-vaccines-treatments-novel-coronavirus 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 12  
Conditions for this Call for proposal 
All proposals must conform to the conditions set out in the H2020 Rules for Participation 
(https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/portal/doc/call/h2020/common/1595113-h2020-rules-
participation_oj_en.pdf) and the Commission Delegated Regulation with regard to IMI2 JU http://eur-
lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/PDF/?uri=CELEX:32014R0622&from=EN. 
The following conditions shall apply to this IMI2 JU Call for Proposals: 
Applicants intending to submit a proposal in response to the IMI2 Call 21 should read this topics text, the     IMI2 JU 
Manual for submission, evaluation and grant award and other relevant documents (e.g. IMI2 JU Model Grant 
Agreement). 
 
Call Identifier 
H2020-JTI-IMI2-2020-21-single-stage 
 
Type of actions 
Research and Innovation Action (RIA) 
 
Publication Date 
3 March 2020 
 
Submission start date 
3 March 2020 
 
Submission deadline  
31 March 2020 
 
 
Indicative Budget 
From EFPIA companies and IMI2 JU Associated  
Partners                                                                      to be defined based upon selected proposals 
  
From the IMI2 JU                                                        EUR 45 000 000 
 
Call Topic 
IMI2-2020-21-1 
Development of therapeutics 
and diagnostics combatting 
coronaviruses infections 
The indicative contribution 
from EFPIA companies is to 
be defined based upon 
selected proposals. 
The financial contribution 
from IMI2 JU is a maximum 
of EUR 45 000 000 
Research and Innovation Action (RIA) 
Single stage submission and 
evaluation process. 
Proposals submitted will be evaluated 
and ranked in one single list. Several 
proposals might be invited to conclude 
a Grant Agreement, depending on the 
budget availability and their ranking. 
 
 
 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 13  
The following general conditions shall apply to the IMI2 JU Calls for Proposals. They are based on the General 
Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-202016. 
 
LIST OF COUNTRIES AND APPLICABLE RULES FOR FUNDING 
By way of derogation17 from Article 10(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1290/2013, only the following participants shall be 
eligible for funding from the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking: 
(a) legal entities established in a Member State or an associated country, or created under Union law; and 
(b) which fall within one of the following categories:  
(i) micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and other companies with an annual turnover of EUR 500 
million or less, the latter not being affiliated entities of companies with an annual turnover of more than 500 
million; the definition of ‘affiliated entities’ within the meaning of Article 2(1)(2) of Regulation (EU) No 
1290/2013 shall apply mutatis mutandis, 
(ii) secondary and higher education establishments,  
(iii) non-profit organisations, including those carrying out research or technological development as one of 
their main objectives or those that are patient organisations;  
(c) the Joint Research Centre;  
(d) international European interest organisations. 
Participating legal entities listed in (b) above established in a third country may receive funding from the IMI2 JU 
provided their participation is deemed essential for carrying out the action by the IMI2 JU or when such funding is 
provided for under a bilateral scientific and technological agreement or any other arrangement between the Union 
and the country in which the legal entity is established18. 
 
STANDARD ADMISSIBILITY CONDITIONS, PAGES LIMITS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS 
Part B of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
In addition, page limits will apply to proposals as follows: 
 
for a single-stage call the limit for RIA/IA full proposals is 70 pages. 
STANDARD ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS 
Part C of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
 
                                                      
16  http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/wp/2018-2020/annexes/h2020-wp1820-annex-ga_en.pdf 
17 Pursuant to the Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 622/2014 of 14 February 2014 establishing a derogation from Regulation (EU) No 
1290/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules for participation and dissemination in ‘Horizon 2020 — the 
Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020)’ with regard to the Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking 
18 In accordance with Article 10(2) of the Regulation (EU) No 1290/2013 and Article 1 of Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) No 622/2014 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 14  
TYPES OF ACTION: SPECIFIC PROVISIONS AND FUNDING RATES 
Part D of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
TECHNOLOGY READINESS LEVELS (TRL) 
Part G of the General Annexes to Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for the 
actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
EVALUATION RULES 
Part H of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals with the following additions:  
Award criteria and scores: 
Experts will evaluate the proposals on the basis of criteria of ‘Excellence’, ‘Impact’ and ‘Quality and efficiency of the 
implementation’ according to the submission stage and type of action, as follows:  
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 15  
Type of 
action 
Excellence 
The following aspects 
will be taken into 
account, to the extent 
that the proposed work 
corresponds to the topic 
description in the Call 
for proposals and 
referred to in the IMI2 JU 
annual work plan: 
 
Impact 
The following aspects will be 
taken into account: 
Quality and efficiency of the 
implementation 
The following aspects will 
be taken into account: 
RIA  
Single 
stage 
evaluation 
 
 
Level to which all the 
objectives of the Call 
topic text are 
addressed; 
 
 
Soundness of the 
concept and credibility 
of the proposed 
methodology; 
 
 
Extent that the 
proposed work is 
beyond the state of 
the art and 
demonstrates 
innovation potential; 
 
 
Appropriate 
consideration of 
interdisciplinary 
approaches and use 
of stakeholder 
knowledge. 
 
Demonstration of how the 
outputs of the project will 
contribute to each of the 
expected impacts 
mentioned in the relevant 
Call topic text; 
 
 
Demonstration of how the 
project plans to leverage 
the public-private 
partnership model to 
achieve greater impact on 
innovation within R&D, 
regulatory, clinical and 
healthcare practices, as 
relevant; 
 
 
Impacts on 
competitiveness and 
growth of companies 
including SMEs; 
 
 
Quality and effectiveness 
of the proposed measures 
to:  
 
Disseminate, exploit 
and sustain the project 
results;  
 
Manage research 
data; 
 
Communicate the 
project activities to 
relevant target 
audiences. 
 
Quality and effectiveness 
of the work plan, including 
extent to which the 
resources assigned to 
work packages are in line 
with their objectives and 
deliverables; 
 
 
Appropriateness of the 
management structures 
and procedures, including 
management of risk and 
innovation; 
 
 
Appropriateness of the 
allocation of tasks, 
ensuring that all 
participants have a valid 
role and adequate 
resources in the project to 
fulfil that role; 
 
 
Complementarity of the 
participants and extent to 
which the consortium as 
whole brings together the 
necessary expertise;  
 
 
Clearly defined 
contribution and effective 
integration of the industrial 
partners to the project. 
 
These evaluation criteria include scores and thresholds. Evaluation scores will be awarded for the criteria, and not 
for the different aspects listed in the above table. For all evaluated proposals, each criterion will be scored out of 5. 
Half marks may be given.  
For the evaluation of proposals under a single-stage submission procedure: 
 
the threshold for individual criteria will be 4; 
 
the overall threshold, applying to the sum of the three individual scores, will be 12. 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 16  
Following each evaluation stage, applicants will receive an ESR (Evaluation Summary Report) regarding the 
respective evaluated proposal. 
The full evaluation procedure is described in the IMI2 JU Manual for submission, evaluation and grant award in line 
with the Horizon 2020 Rules for Participation.19 
Under the single-stage evaluation process, evaluated proposals will be ranked in one single list. The best-ranked 
proposals, in the framework of the available budget, will be invited to prepare a Grant Agreement. 
Under the IMI2 JU Call 21, IMI2 JU will not organise hearings.  
The IMI2 JU evaluation procedure is confidential. The members of the applicant consortia shall avoid taking any 
actions that could jeopardise confidentiality.  
INDICATIVE TIMETABLE FOR EVALUATION AND GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
 
Information on the 
outcome of the 
evaluation 
(single stage, or first 
stage of a two-stages) 
Information on the 
outcome of the 
evaluation 
(second stage of a two 
stages) 
Indicative date for the 
signing of grant agreement 
Single-
stage  
Maximum 5 months from 
the submission deadline at 
the single stage. 
N/A 
Maximum 8 months from the 
submission deadline. 
 
BUDGET FLEXIBILITY 
Part I of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
ACTIONS INVOLVING FINANCIAL SUPPORT TO THIRD PARTIES 
Part K of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions selected under topics covered by this Call for proposals. 
CONDITIONS RELATED TO OPEN ACCESS TO RESEARCH DATA 
Part L of the General Annexes to the Horizon 2020 Work Programme 2018-2020 shall apply mutatis mutandis for 
the actions covered by this Call for proposals. 
However, should a project ‘opt-out’ of these provisions, a Data Management Plan must still be prepared. A 
template for the Data Management Plan is available on the IMI2 JU website. 
IMI2 JU Call 21 - Public Health Emergency- Availability of research data 
Beneficiaries in grants awarded under IMI2 JU Call 21 must make available their research data, at the latest within 
30 days after it has been generated, through open access or, if agreed by the IMI2 JU or the European 
Commission, by giving access rights to those third parties that need the research data to address the Public Health 
                                                      
19 https://www.imi.europa.eu/sites/default/files/uploads/documents/apply-for-funding/call-
documents/imi2/IMI2_ManualForSubmission_v1.7_November2018.pdf 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 17  
Emergency. Therefore, the relevant option of Article 29.3 (option 1c) of the IMI2 JU Model Grant Agreement20 will 
apply. It is expected that quality-controlled data are shared in accordance with the FAIR principles. The use of 
harmonised protocols in collaboration with other actors is recommended for this purpose. 
SUBMISSION TOOL 
Proposals in response to a topic of the IMI2 JU Call for proposals must be submitted online, before the call 
deadline, by the coordinator via the Submission Service section of the relevant topic page available under Funding 
& tender opportunities - Single Electronic Data Interchange Area (SEDIA). 
No other means of submission will be accepted. 
OTHERS 
For proposals including clinical trials/studies/investigations, a specific template to help applicants to provide 
essential information on clinical studies in a standardised format is available under:  
https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/legal/templ/h2020_tmpl-clinical-studies_2018-
2020_en.pdf.  
In a single stage evaluation procedure involving clinical studies, the use of this template is mandatory in order to 
provide experts with the necessary information to evaluate the proposals. The template may be submitted as a 
separate document. 
Ethical issues should be duly addressed in each submitted proposal to ensure that the proposed activities comply 
with ethical principles and relevant national, Union and international legislation. Any proposal that contravenes 
ethical principles or which does not fulfil the conditions set out in the H2020 Rules for Participation, or in the IMI2 
JU Call for proposals shall not be selected. 21 
In order to ensure excellence in data and knowledge management consortia will be requested to disseminate 
scientific publications on the basis of open access22 (see ‘Guidelines on Open Access to Scientific Publications and 
Research Data in Horizon 2020’). 
To ensure actions are implemented properly, at the time of the signature of the grant agreement, each selected 
consortia must have agreed upon a consortium agreement, i.e. the internal arrangements regarding their operation 
and co-ordination. 
Single-stage proposals must contain a draft plan for the exploitation and dissemination of the results. 
Applicants intending to submit a proposal in response to the IMI2 JU Calls should also read the topic text, the IMI2 
JU Manual for submission, evaluation and grant award, and other relevant documents23 (e.g. IMI2 JU model Grant 
Agreement). 
 
 
                                                      
20 https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/mga/jtis/h2020-mga-imi_en.pdf  
21 Article 19 of Horizon 2020 Framework Programme and Articles 13 and 14 of the Horizon 2020 Rules for Participation. 
22 Article 43.2 of Regulation (EU) No 1290/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the rules for participation and 
dissemination in "Horizon 2020 - the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation (2014-2020)" and repealing Regulation (EC) No 
1906/2006 
23 http://www.imi.europa.eu/apply-funding/call-documents/imi2-call-documents 
  
 
Call Text – IMI2 21st Call for proposals  
Page | 18  
List of Acronyms 
Acronym 
Meaning 
CoV 
Coronaviruses 
COVID-19 
Corona Virus Disease 2019 
CSA 
Research and Innovation Action 
DMP 
Data Management Plan 
ECDC 
European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control 
EFPIA 
European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations 
EMA 
European Medicines Agency 
EMBL 
European Molecular Biology Laboratory 
IMI2 JU 
Innovative Medicines Initiative 2 Joint Undertaking 
MERS-CoV 
Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus 
REA 
Research and Innovation Action 
SARS-CoV 
Severe acute respiratory syndrome –associated coronavirus disease 
SARS-CoV-2 
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
SMEs 
Small and medium-sized enterprises 
SRA 
Strategic Researvh Agenda 
WHO 
World Health Organisation 
WP 
Work Package 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 GOVERNO DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
SECRETARIA DE CIÊNCIA, TECNOLOGIA E INOVAÇÃO 
FUNDAÇÃO DE APOIO À PESQUISA DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
 
 
DIRETRIZES FAPDF 
(IMI 2 – 21st Call for Proposals) 
 
Development of therapeutics and diagnostics combatting 
coronavirus infections 
 
I. 
INTRODUÇÃO 
A presente Chamada, lançada em caráter emergencial pela Innovative Medicines Initiative 
(IMI) junto com a Comissão Europeia e a European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries 
and Associations (EFPIA), tem como objetivo identificar novos agentes terapêuticos e sistemas 
de diagnóstico precoces eficazes e confiáveis contra a atual  infecção de Coronavírus e outras 
infecções relacionadas que podem vir a aparecer. 
O montante de recurso disponibilizado para a Chamada é € 45.000.000 pelo lado europeu. 
Os projetos de pesquisa devem ser apresentados por um coordenador Europeu (seguindo as 
diretrizes da Chamada) envolvendo entidades baseadas em pelo menos 3 países da União 
Europeia ou Associados. 
As propostas a serem submetidas deverão abordar pelo menos um dos seguintes objetivos: 
 
Desenvolvimento de antivirais, bem como outros tipos de terapêuticas, para tratar de 
uma resposta rápida ao atual surto de COVID-19; 
 
Desenvolvimento de terapêuticas para abordar os surtos atuais e/ou futuros de 
coronavírus; 
 
Desenvolvimento de diagnósticos, garantindo avaliação rápida dos candidatos com 
base nas tecnologias existentes; 
 
Desenvolvimento de ferramentas rápidas e confiáveis que vão além do estado da 
técnica para detecção de portadores de COVID-19 e indivíduos sintomáticos suspeitos 
de infecção por COVID-19.  
As vacinas são especificamente excluídas do escopo da Chamada. 
Os pesquisadores do Distrito Federal poderão compor os consórcios a serem formados para a 
submissão de propostas. 
A FAPDF financiará os subprojetos dos pesquisadores do DF que participarem dos consórcios 
contemplados. 
 
II. 
RECURSOS FAPDF 
A FAPDF apoiará financeiramente todas as propostas do DF que participarem dos consórcios 
contemplados, na forma apresentada no item IV (ITENS FINANCIÁVEIS). 
 
III. 
ELEGIBILIDADE  
a) Quanto à Instituição  
Poderão participar da chamada os pesquisadores vinculados à Instituições de Ensino 
Superior e/ou de Pesquisa, públicas ou privadas sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF. 
 
b) Quanto ao Coordenador 
O Coordenador deverá atender os requisitos abaixo apresentados.  
 b.1) ter nacionalidade brasileira ou estrangeira com RNE (Registro Nacional de 
Estrangeiro) permanente, (Lei no 6.815 de 19 de agosto de 1980, que define a situação 
do estrangeiro no Brasil);  
b.2) ser residente e domiciliado no Distrito Federal ou RIDE (RIDE – Região Integrada 
de Desenvolvimento Econômico – Distrito Federal); 
b.3) ter vínculo laboral celetista ou estatutário de caráter permanente com a 
Instituição Executora;  
b.4) possuir título de doutor; 
b.6) ter cadastro atualizado no Sistema de Informação e Gestão de Projetos – SIGFAP 
da FAPDF;  
b.8) não ser aposentado e não estar licenciado. 
 
c)    Quanto à proposta  
c.1) É de exclusiva responsabilidade de cada proponente adotar todas as providências 
que envolvam permissões e autorizações especiais de caráter ético ou legal, 
necessárias à execução do projeto, como por exemplo: concordância do Comitê de 
Ética no caso de experimentos envolvendo seres humanos; EIA/RIMA na área 
ambiental; autorização da CTNBio/MCT em relação OGMs, genoma, entre outros. 
 c.2) Os documentos comprobatórios das permissões e autorizações especiais 
necessários à execução do projeto, deverão obrigatoriamente ser apresentados à 
FAPDF, quando solicitados.  
 
IV. 
ITENS FINANCIÁVEIS  
Serão financiados recursos de capital e custeio. 
a) Capital (limitado a 30% do valor total solicitado) 
- Equipamentos; e  
- Material Bibliográfico  
Os itens de capital adquiridos serão alocados na Instituição Executora do projeto sob a 
responsabilidade, manutenção e guarda do Coordenador. Após o encerramento do projeto e 
aprovação da prestação de contas, os itens de capital deverão ser devolvidos à FAPDF que 
decidirá sobre a devida destinação.  
 
b) Custeio  
Poderão ser solicitados os seguintes itens: 
b.1) Bolsas (modalidades: Apoio Técnico, Iniciação Científica, Mestrado, Doutorado e PósDoc 
que deverão seguir os requisitos e valores do CNPq); 
b.2) Material de consumo, componentes e/ou peças de reposição de equipamentos, software, 
combustível (apenas quando destinado ao desenvolvimento do projeto, ou seja, pesquisa de 
campo), passagens (aéreas e terrestres) e diárias (conforme Instrução nº 02, de 06 de janeiro 
de 2016) somente para a Equipe Técnica e exclusivamente para o desenvolvimento do projeto;  
b.3) Pagamento integral ou parcial de contratos de manutenção e serviços de terceiros, pessoa 
física ou jurídica, de caráter eventual, essencial ao desenvolvimento do projeto;  
b.4) A mão-de-obra empregada na execução do projeto não terá vínculo de qualquer natureza 
com a FAPDF e desta não poderá demandar quaisquer pagamentos, permanecendo na 
exclusiva responsabilidade do Coordenador/Instituição de execução do projeto. 
 
V.     ITENS NÃO FINANCIÁVEIS PELA FAPDF 
a) Despesas a título de taxa de administração, gerência ou similar;  
b) Taxas bancárias, multas, juros ou qualquer encargo decorrente de pagamento fora do prazo; 
c)   Despesas com publicidade que caracterize promoção pessoal de autoridades ou servidores 
públicos, salvo as de caráter educativo, informativo ou de orientação social;  
 d) Remuneração de pesquisador, envolvido no projeto e pagamento de salários ou 
complementação salarial de pessoal técnico e administrativo ou quaisquer outras vantagens 
para pessoal de órgão ou de instituições públicas (Federal, Estadual, Distrital e Municipal);  
e)   Aquisição e aluguel de imóvel;  
f)    Aquisição de mobiliário; 
g)   Aquisição de veículos automotores, peças e acessórios;  
h) Pagamentos, a qualquer título, a servidor da administração pública ou empregado de 
empresa pública ou de sociedade de economia mista, por serviços de consultoria ou 
assistência técnica;  
i)    Despesas de obras civis, energia elétrica, água, telefone e correio de responsabilidade da 
Instituição Executora; 
 j)    Passagens e diárias para participação e promoção de eventos técnico-científicos, 
congressos, simpósios, workshops, visitas técnicas e cursos, por serem objetos de 
financiamento de Edital específico (Edital 03/2020, Patrocínio);  
k)    Seguro viagem; e 
l)    Despesas com publicações. 
 
Casos omissos serão resolvidos pelo Conselho Diretor da FAPDF. 
A íntegra da Chamada pode ser observada no endereço eletrônico www.fap.df.gov.br  
 
ALESSANDRO FRANÇA DANTAS  
Diretor Presidente 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
1 
 
 
CONFAP – MSCA RISE 2020 Call 
 
Call for the submission of MSCA RISE proposals 
Research and Innovation Staff Exchange  
in coordination with Horizon 2020 
 
1. Objective: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP invites researchers from Brazil to 
pursue research and innovation collaborations within Horizon 2020 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions 
(MSCA) Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE). 
2. Background: 
The present call is launched by CONFAP on the basis of the Administrative Arrangement between the 
Directorate-General for Research and Innovation of the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one 
side, and the Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the 
Brazilian Funding Agency for Studies (FINEP) and Projects and the Brazilian National Council of  State 
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, on the mechanisms to support EU-Brazil cooperation 
in research and innovation activities, signed on the 22nd May 2018. 
3. Eligible Proponents: 
 Eligible Institutions: Public or private (non - profit) Higher Education and Research Institutions, 
Scientific Institutions, Technology and Innovation Institutions, based in Brazilian States 
corresponding to the FAPs which participate in the call.  
 Eligible Applicants: must be linked to a Research Institution located in Brazilian States 
participating in the call, through their respective FAPs; 
 Additional or alternative eligibility institutions and/or applicants and additional/alternative 
criteria are defined individually by each of the FAPs which participate in the call (listed in 
Item 7), which have to be previously consulted.  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
2 
4. Scope: 
Horizon 2020 (H2020) is the European Union Research and Innovation programme covering the 
timeframe from 2014 to 2020. Within H2020, the Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) aim to 
support the career development and training of researchers – with a focus on innovation skills – in all 
scientific disciplines through international and intersectoral mobility.  
Among the supported actions under MSCA, the Research and Innovation Staff Exchange (RISE) aims to 
promote international and intersectoral collaboration through the exchange of research and 
innovation staff, and sharing of knowledge and ideas from research to market (and vice-versa) for the 
advancement of science and the development of innovation. The scheme fosters a shared culture of 
research and innovation that welcomes and rewards creativity and entrepreneurship and helps to turn 
creative ideas into innovative products, services or processes. 
MSCA RISE proposals can include researchers, academic and non-academic institutions (including 
enterprises) from countries outside the European Union (EU). However, while the EU will fund the 
participation of partners from EU enlargement and neighbouring countries and from developing 
countries, it does not automatically fund the partners from industrialized countries and emerging 
economies such as Brazil1. 
Participants from Brazil must therefore provide their own sources of funding, in order to take part of 
the collaborative RISE proposals to be submitted under the H2020 MSCA-RISE-2020 call. 
5. Participation to RISE proposals with co-financing of Brazilian State Funding Agencies 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs) participating in the present call (specified in Item 7), may 
support the participation of Brazilian researchers within collaborative RISE proposals, according to the 
modalities defined: 
a) In the present call 
b) In the European MSCA-RISE-2020 call (details in Annex I) 
c) By the participating FAPs, in their corresponding Guidelines, providing further rules and 
orientations. 
                                                 
1 https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/hi/h2020_localsupp_brazil_en.pdf 
  
  
 
 
 
3 
Proponents eligible for funding by the Brazilian State Funding Agencies supporting the present call will 
use their normal modes of funding to support the participation in MSCA RISE 2020 proposals.  
The participating FAPs may provide specific orientations providing instructions to this end.  
Participants from Brazil must follow the rules of the general H2020 MSCA RISE 2020, published on the 
portal of the European Commission, available here and resumed in Annex I. 
MSCA RISE proposals must be submitted in first instance within the European Commission Funding & 
Tenders Portal, through the above mentioned link.  
In addition, Brazilian Principal Investigators (PIs), must also submit a resumed proposal to their FAP, 
following the indications of the present call, and in line with the funding modalities of their 
corresponding FAP. 
6. General information for the applicants: 
6.1. 
Proposal preparation and submission 
a. Submissions to FAPs must occur after the general H2020 RISE 2020 call closes (28th of April 
2020), as the general project presented by the international consortium must be annexed to 
the resumed project presented to the FAPs. The deadline for the submission to the FAPs is the 
21st of May 2020. 
b. Nevertheless, some FAPs may request to be contacted prior to such submission; therefore 
conditions must be verified directly with the involved FAP. 
c. Each FAP can define their own deadline for receiving proposals associated to projects 
submitted within the General MSCA RISE 2020 Call. 
d. The proposal submitted to the participating FAPs should make clear that the Brazilian Principal 
Investigator (PI) in the respective involved State had a relevant participation in the design of 
the complete research project submitted to MSCA RISE; i.e. being a leader of work packages 
and/or tasks, or whose participation is fundamental for carrying out specific activities 
described in the MSCA RISE Proposal. The resulting collaboration must aim to contribute to 
the scientific, technological and socio-economic development of the involved Brazilian State. 
e. The Brazilian engagement, as described above, must also be clearly stated in the H2020 MSCA 
RISE proposal. 
f. Proposals with participation of Brazilian PIs from more than one Brazilian state must be 
submitted independently to the FAPs from all states. 
  
  
 
 
 
4 
g. Submission of proposals to FAPs are the sole responsibility of the Brazilian PIs. 
 
6.2 Orientations for Proponents: 
Proposal submitted to the participating FAPs must: 
a) Follow the guidelines indicated by the FAPs for this specific CONFAP-RISE 2020 call.  
b) Clearly mention that the project is associated to a proposal submitted to H2020 MSCA 
RISE. 
c) Include the title and acronym of the proposal submitted to H2020 MSCA RISE, details of 
the EU Project Coordinator/Manager (Name of the Coordinating institution and Name of 
the Project Manager, as indicated in the H2020 MSCA RISE proposal, key staff section), 
his/her's Institution's Participant Identification Code - PIC Number, Call reference 
(Programme/Topic and number of the call). 
d) Include a short section (maximum two pages) demonstrating why the participation of the 
PI from Brazil is relevant for the MSCA research and innovation staff exchange project and 
how this collaboration will contribute to the scientific and technological development of 
the involved State/s in Brazil.  
e) It is very important that the reviewers and panel members of the involved FAPs clearly 
understand how the collaboration of the co-PI in Brazil is scientifically relevant, integrated 
to the EU proposal, and determinant to the success of the whole proposal and staff 
exchange scheme. It is also essential to clearly demonstrate that the co-PI/s in Brazil 
participated actively in the conception, and in the preparation of the proposal. The PI/s in 
Brazil is/are ultimately responsible for making these elements clear in the proposal 
submitted to the FAPs. 
f) The proposal, containing the up-mentioned elements must necessarily annex a full copy 
of the proposal submitted to the H2020 MSCA RISE call on the European Commission 
Funding & Tenders Portal, including Part A (Details on Project Partners and on the Overall 
Project Budget) and Technical Annex Part B (description of the Project). 
6.1 Proposal evaluation 
 
6.2.1. The evaluation of the proposal submitted to the involved FAPs will follow their respective 
standard procedures used for analysis and selection of research proposals. The content of 
  
  
 
 
 
5 
the proposals submitted for evaluation, so as the Annexes indicated in point 6.2.f shall be 
kept confidential. 
6.2.2. The proposal will be funded by the involved FAP/s only if it is also approved by H2020. 
The Award Term of the FAPs (“Termo de Outorga”) will only be available for signature 
upon the submission of the Grant Agreement with which the EU awards the grant to the 
consortium.  
7. Involved FAPs 
The FAPs listed below support the present call according to their respective Guidelines which 
shall be informed directly by the FAPs. Specific clarifications regarding eligibility issues and 
additional rules for participation and submission must be directed to the respective FAPs. 
7.1.2 Participating State Funding Agencies: 
1. Paraná – Fundação Araucária 
2. Federal District - FAPDF 
3. Alagoas – FAPEAL 
4. Amazonas – FAPEAM 
5. Goiás – FAPEG 
6. Minas Gerais – FAPEMIG 
7. Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS 
8. Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ 
9. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
10. Paraíba – FAPESQ 
11. Tocantins – FAPT 
12. Ceará – FUNCAP 
13. Rondônia - FAPERO 
 
7.1.2  Information about the call in its general features can be obtained by sending a consultation 
to: elisa.confap@gmail.com 
8. Deadlines: 
 For submission of the general proposal to the H2020 MSCA RISE Call: 28th of April 2020 
 For the submission of proposals to the participating FAPs: 21st of May 2020 
  
  
 
 
 
6 
 
Annex I: Horizon 2020 MSCA RISE 2020 Call 
In order to be eligible for receiving support from Brazilian FAPs, Brazilian participants must 
verify the details of the Horizon 2020 MSCA RISE 2020 call, resumed here below and detailed 
in the call portal – see details available here. 
 
Objective: 
The RISE scheme promotes international and cross-sector collaboration through exchanging 
research and innovation staff, and sharing knowledge and ideas from research to market (and 
vice-versa). 
The scheme fosters a shared culture of research and innovation that welcomes and rewards 
creativity and entrepreneurship and helps to turn creative ideas into innovative products, 
services or processes. 
Scope: 
RISE involves organisations from the academic and non-academic sectors (in particular SMEs), 
based in Europe (EU Member States and Horizon 2020 Associated Countries) and outside 
Europe (third countries). 
Support is provided for the development of partnerships in the form of a joint research and 
innovation project. This is aimed at knowledge sharing via international as well as intersectoral 
mobility, based on secondments of research and innovation staff (exchanges) with an in-built 
return mechanism. 
The organisations constituting the partnership contribute directly to the implementation of a 
joint research and innovation project by seconding and/or hosting eligible staff members. 
Secondments shall always take place between legal entities independent from each other. 
RISE should exploit complementary competences of the participating organisations, as well as 
other synergies, and enable networking activities, organisation of workshops and conferences 
to facilitate sharing of knowledge, new skills acquisition and career development for research 
and innovation staff members. 
RISE proposals can focus either on one dimension of mobility (intersectoral / international), or 
include a combination of both. 
  
  
 
 
 
7 
Exchanges can be for both early-stage and experienced researchers and can also include 
administrative, managerial and technical staff directly involved in the research and innovation 
activities of the proposal. 
Support for the exchanges between institutions within Europe (EU Member States and Horizon 
2020 Associated Countries) covers only intersectoral secondments. 
Exchanges with institutions from and to third countries can be intersectoral as well as within 
the same sector. 
Secondments between institutions established in third countries or within the same EU 
Member State or Horizon 2020 Associated Country will not be supported. 
Expected Impact: 
 At staff member level: 
o Increased set of skills, both research-related and transferable ones, leading to 
improved employability and career prospects both in and outside academia. 
o Increase in higher impact R&I output, more knowledge and ideas converted into 
products and services. 
o Greater contribution to the knowledge-based economy and society.  
 At organisation level: 
o Enhanced cooperation and transfer of knowledge between sectors and disciplines. 
o Strengthening of international and intersectoral collaborative networks. 
o Boosting of R&I capacity among participating organisations.  
 At system level: 
o Increase in international, interdisciplinary and intersectoral mobility of researchers 
in Europe 
o Strengthening of Europe's human capital base in R&I. 
o Increase in Europe's attractiveness as a leading destination for R&I. 
o Better quality R&I contributing to Europe's competitiveness and growth. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
8 
 
Cross-cutting Priorities: 
 Socio-economic science and humanities 
 International cooperation 
 Gender 
 Open Science 
 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
1 
 
DIRETRIZES FAPDF 
MSCA RISE -RESEARCH & INNOVATION STAFF EXCHANGE 
(INTERCÂMBIO PARA PESQUISA & INOVAÇÃO) 
 
I. APRESENTAÇÃO 
O Programa Europeu MSCA RISE, componente do programa europeu Horizon 2020, visa 
promover a colaboração internacional e intersetorial por meio do intercâmbio de pessoal de 
pesquisa e inovação e compartilhamento de conhecimentos e idéias da pesquisa ao mercado (e 
vice-versa) para o avanço da ciência e desenvolvimento da inovação. O esquema promove uma 
cultura compartilhada de pesquisa e inovação que acolhe e recompensa a criatividade e o 
empreendedorismo e ajuda a transformar idéias criativas em produtos, serviços ou processos 
inovadores. 
A presente Chamada financia a mobilidade de curto prazo com o objetivo de promover a 
colaboração internacional e intersetorial por meio do intercâmbio de equipes de pesquisa e 
inovação.  
A colaboração resultante deve contribuir de forma significativa para ao desenvolvimento 
científico, tecnológico e sócio-econômico do Distrito Federal. 
 
II. RECURSOS 
A FAPDF fará um aporte de R$ 180.000,00 (cento e oitenta mil reais) para apoiar até três 
propostas de pesquisadores do Distrito Federal, com o valor máximo de R$ 60.000,00 (sessenta 
mil reais) por proposta. 
 
III. ELEGIBILIDADE 
a. Quanto à Instituição 
Poderão participar da chamada os pesquisadores do Distrito Federal vinculados à Instituições de 
Ensino Superior e/ou de Pesquisa, públicas ou privadas sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF. 
 
b. Quanto ao Coordenador 
O Coordenador deverá atender os requisitos abaixo apresentados: 
1) possuir título de doutor; 
2) ser residente e domiciliado no Distrito Federal ou RIDE (RIDE – Região Integrada de 
Desenvolvimento Econômico – Distrito Federal); 
3) ter vínculo laboral celetista ou estatutário de caráter permanente com a Instituição 
Executora;  
4) ter cadastro atualizado no Sistema de Informação e Gestão de Projetos – SIGFAP da FAPDF ou 
outro Sistema informatizado que a FAPDF venha a utilizar, com toda a documentação 
comprobatória atualizada, solicitada neste item;  
5) não ser aposentado e não estar licenciado;  
6) ter nacionalidade brasileira ou estrangeira com RNE (Registro Nacional de Estrangeiro) 
permanente, (Lei no 6.815 de 19 de agosto de 1980, que define a situação do estrangeiro no 
Brasil); e 
7) ter currículo atualizado na Plataforma Lattes. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
2 
c. Quanto à proposta 
1) É de exclusiva responsabilidade de cada proponente adotar todas as providências que 
envolvam permissões e autorizações especiais de caráter ético ou legal, necessárias à execução 
do projeto, como por exemplo: concordância do Comitê de Ética no caso de experimentos 
envolvendo seres humanos; EIA/RIMA na área ambiental; autorização da CTNBio/MCT em 
relação OGMs, genoma, entre outros. 
2)  Os documentos comprobatórios das permissões e autorizações especiais necessários à 
execução do projeto, deverão obrigatoriamente ser apresentados à FAPDF, quando solicitados.  
 
IV. ITENS FINANCIÁVEIS 
Poderão ser solicitados os seguintes itens: 
1)   Bolsas (modalidade: 01 (uma) Apoio Técnico e 01 (uma) PósDoc, que deverão seguir os 
requisitos e valores do CNPq); 
2) Material de consumo, componentes e/ou peças de reposição de equipamentos, software, 
combustível (apenas quando destinado ao desenvolvimento do projeto, ou seja, pesquisa de 
campo), passagens (aéreas, em classe econômica, e terrestres) e diárias (conforme Instrução nº 
02, de 06 de janeiro de 2016) somente para a Equipe Técnica e exclusivamente para o 
desenvolvimento do projeto;  
3) Pagamento integral ou parcial de contratos de manutenção e serviços de terceiros, pessoa 
física ou jurídica, de caráter eventual, essencial ao desenvolvimento do projeto;  
4) A mão-de-obra empregada na execução do projeto não terá vínculo de qualquer natureza 
com a FAPDF e desta não poderá demandar quaisquer pagamentos, permanecendo na exclusiva 
responsabilidade do Coordenador/Instituição de execução do projeto. 
 
V. ITENS NÃO FINANCIÁVEIS 
a) Despesas a título de taxa de administração, gerência ou similar;  
b) Taxas bancárias, multas, juros ou qualquer encargo decorrente de pagamento fora do prazo; 
c) Despesas com publicidade que caracterize promoção pessoal de autoridades ou servidores 
públicos, salvo as de caráter educativo, informativo ou de orientação social;  
d) Remuneração de pesquisador, envolvido no projeto e pagamento de salários ou 
complementação salarial de pessoal técnico e administrativo ou quaisquer outras vantagens para 
pessoal de órgão ou de instituições públicas (Federal, Estadual, Distrital e Municipal);  
e) Aquisição e aluguel de imóvel;  
f) Aquisição de mobiliário; 
g) Aquisição de veículos automotores, peças e acessórios;  
h) Pagamentos, a qualquer título, a servidor da administração pública ou empregado de empresa 
pública ou de sociedade de economia mista, por serviços de consultoria ou assistência técnica;  
i) Despesas de obras civis, energia elétrica, água, telefone e correio de responsabilidade da 
Instituição Executora; 
 j) Passagens e diárias para participação e promoção de eventos técnico-científicos, congressos, 
simpósios, workshops, visitas técnicas e cursos, por serem objetos de financiamento de Edital 
específico (Edital 03/2020, Patrocínio);  
k) Seguro viagem;  
l) Coffee break, brindes, camisetas e ornamentações; e 
l) Despesas com publicações. 
 
 
 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
3 
VI. SUBMISSÃO DA PROPOSTA À FAPDF 
Após o encerramento do prazo de submissão da proposta à Chamada RISE (28 de abril de 2020), 
a proposta completa (full proposal) e a da equipe do Distrito Federal deverão ser submetidas 
também à FAPDF, via SIGFAP ou outro Sistema informatizado que a FAPDF venha a utilizar, de 
29 de abril à 21 de maio de 2020: 
a. a proposta a ser apoiada pela FAPDF, em língua portuguesa; e 
b. a proposta completa (full proposal). 
 
Independentemente da avaliação da proposta submetida pelo consórcio formado, a FAPDF 
avaliará a proposta submetida pelos pesquisadores do Distrito Federal, de acordo com os 
procedimentos rotineiros de análise de propostas. 
 
VII. AVALIAÇÃO DAS PROPOSTAS 
 
As propostas submetidas à FAPDF serão avaliadas por ad hoc’s de acordo com os critérios abaixo 
apresentados. 
Critério 
Peso 
Nota 
(0 a 10,0) 
Qualidade do Plano de Trabalho de pesquisa proposto: 
Objetivos, metas, resultados esperados, itens orçamentários, 
plano de trabalho exequível da cooperação internacional 
1 
 
Relevância: Relevância científica, tecnológica e de inovação 
do projeto para o Distrito Federal 
2 
 
Potencial de Impacto: potencial de Impacto econômico, social 
e ambiental da inovação pretendida para a comunidade do 
Distrito Federal 
3 
 
Competitividade da proposta no contexto internacional: 
Potencialidade da parceria internacional 
2 
 
Evidência de que o apoio levará a uma colaboração de longo 
prazo além da vigência do projeto: Potencial de consolidação 
e fortalecimento da parceria com o grupo de pesquisa do 
exterior 
2 
 
Pontuação Final 
10 
100,0 
 
  A pontuação final será o somatório das notas obtidas em cada critério. 
  A proposta que obtiver pontuação final maior ou igual a 70 (setenta) será considerada aprovada.   
 
VIII. 
INFORMAÇÕES ADICIONAIS 
 
Informações adicionais podem ser obtidas por meio do email: cootec@fap.df.gov.br 
Casos omissos serão resolvidos pelo Conselho Diretor da FAPDF. 
A íntegra da Chamada pode ser observada no endereço eletrônico www.fap.df.gov.br  
 
ALESSANDRO FRANÇA DANTAS 
Diretor Presidente 
 
 
 
 Chamada CONFAP – MSCA RISE 2020 
 PARTICIPAÇÃO BRASILEIRA NOS PROGRAMAS DE FOMENTO
A MOBILIDADE DA COMISSÃO EUROPEIA:
MSCA RISE -RESEARCH & INNOVATION STAFF EXCHANGE
INTERCÂMBIO PARA PESQUISA & INOVAÇÃO
q O Programa Europeu MSCA RISE financia 
a mobilidade de curto/médio prazo com o 
objetivo de promover a colaboração 
internacional e intersetorial por meio do 
intercâmbio de equipes de pesquisa e 
inovação
q O CONFAP, por meio das suas FAPs, apoia 
a participação de instituições e 
pesquisadores do Brasil em projetos 
apresentados no contexto da chamada 
Horizonte 2020 – MSCA – RISE 2020
 FOCO DO PROGRAMA EUROPEU MSCA
MARIE SKLODOWSKA CURIE ACTIONS
vFormação de excelência em 
Pesquisa e Inovação
vOportunidades de carreira
vTroca de conhecimentos 
por meio da mobilidade
internacional e intersetorial
 Ø Aberto para todas as áreas do conhecimento e inovação
Ø Desde pesquisa básica até aplicada – orientada ao 
mercado + serviços de inovação
Ø Abordagem bottom-up – cobre todos os domínios 
científicos
Ø Participação do setor não-acadêmico fortemente 
encorajado, especialmente indústria e PMEs – Promove a 
colaboração academia - indústria
Ø Mobilidade elemento chave – financiamento ligado ao 
intercâmbio - aproximar grupos de pesquisa; transferência 
de conhecimentos
Ø Dimensão Internacional: Aberto a qualquer nacionalidade
Mobilidade
Carreira
Capacitação
MSCA RISE – Características
 MSCA - RISE
Projeto de Mobilidade + Pesquisa & Inovação
qCooperação Internacional e intersetorial através do intercâmbio de pessoal
qIntegra ações de pesquisa e inovação a nível internacional e/ou Inter setorial
qTemáticas: projetos definidos com abordagem Bottom-up
qFoco em Inovação e orientado para o mercado: através do intercâmbio de pessoal, 
compartilhando conhecimentos e ideias da pesquisa para o mercado (e vice versa)
qIntercâmbio de Pessoal: Pesquisadores de inicio carreira + Pesquisadores experientes + Pessoal 
técnico e administrativo 
qEmpreendedorismo: fortalece a interação entre organizações dos setores acadêmicos/não 
acadêmicos, entre Europa e países terceiros
qPremia a criatividade: transformar ideias criativas em produtos, serviços ou processos 
inovadores
 RISE - Parcerias & Atividades
vComplementariedade de competencias dos participantes
vAtividades de networking 
vOrganização de workshops & conferências para facilitar o compartilhamento do 
conhecimento
vCriação de novas competências & desenvolvimento da carreira
vMobilidade para Países Membros da União Europeia ou Associados*
*http://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/data/ref/h2020/other/wp/2016-2017/annexes/h2020-wp1617-
annex-a-countries-rules_en.pdf
Atividades de Pesquisa e Inovação devem promover:
 Chamada 2020 aberta
O que oferece?
Intercâmbios de funcionários envolvidos em pesquisa e inovação, 
para desenvolver projetos de colaboração sustentáveis e 
transferência de conhecimentos
Quem pode submeter projetos?
Redes internacionais de organizações de pesquisa dos setores 
acadêmicos e não-acadêmicos
Quem é financiado?
ü Pelo lado Europeu: pesquisadores em todos os níveis de 
carreira, pessoal administrativo e técnico  
ü Pelo Brasil: detalhes devem ser consultados com as FAPs
participantes
 Regras de Partipação
§ Acima desse
minimo, a 
participação de 
instituições de 
parceiros de 
qualquer pais é 
possivel, 
seguindo as 
regras gerais de 
elegibilidade do 
H2020.
Participantes localisados em
minimo três países diferentes da 
União Europeia ou Associados
Projeto Internacional: minimo
uma Instituição fora da Europa e
minimo dois localisados em Paises
Membros ou Associados
Projeto Intersetorial: minimo um
participante dos dois setores, 
localisados em minimo dois Paises
Membros ou Associados
 Tríplice "i"
Dentro do 
Triângulo do 
Conhecimento:
Pesquisa
Inovação
Educação
Elementos-chave:
 • Qualquer entidade jurídica estabelecida num Estado Membro da
UE ou País Associado, ou num País terceiro:
• Instituições de Pesquisa (publicas ou privadas)
• Industria (incl. PMEs)
• Organizações, Associações, Agencias
• Entidades Governamentais e non-governamentais
• …..
ØPara Países Industrializados e Países Emergentes – incluído o
Brasil - a participação é elegível mas com co-financiamento –
regras de elegibilidade devem ser verificadas com as FAPs
participantes
Elegíbilidade para Participação: 
 Onde encontrar
Informações & 
Documentos da 
chamada europeia
H2020 MSCA RISE
 https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-
tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/msca-rise-2020
Funding & tender opportunities Portal
 https://ec.europa.eu/research/participants/portal/desktop/en/organisations/register.html
Para participar nos projetos, todas as organizações devem se cadastrar no Portal ECAS: 
Participant Identification Code (PIC).
Registro ECAS
 Elaboração
de 
Projetos
 Projeto Parte A 
üSeção 1: Informações gerais (incluindo resumo) 
üSeção 2: Informações sobre o consórcio
üSeção 3: Orçamento e planinla da mobilidade
üSeção 4: Assuntos de ética
 Projeto Parte B 
LISTA DE PARTICIPANTES (incluindo informações dos parceiros não acadêmicos)
1.
Sumário
2.
Excelência
3.
Impacto
4.
Implementação
1.
Referências
2.
Capacidades das Instituições participantes
3.
Questões de Etica
4.
Cartas de apoido das Instituições parceiras
Limite 30 páginas
Inicio contagem de páginas
Fim contagem de páginas
Parceiros Brasileiros
devem assinar
 RISE Critérios de Avaliação
50%
30%
20%
 Busca de parceiros
http://www.net4mobility.eu/eoi.html
 Apoio
 Net4Mobility+
https://www.net4mobilityplus.eu
vDocumentos de apoio
vBusca de parceiros
MSCA NCPs
 EURAXESS
https://euraxess.ec.europa.eu
/worldwide/brazil/research-
and-innovation-projects-
through-mobility-msca-rise-
call
 22
22
Chamada CONFAP – MSCA RISE 2020
Acesse a chamada 
completa no site do 
CONFAP:
https://confap.org.br/ne
ws/disponivel-chamada-
confap-msca-rise-2020-
para-mobilidade-
internacional-de-
pesquisadores/
 Apoio das FAPs
• Paraná – Fundação Araucária
• Federal District – FAPDF
• Alagoas – FAPEAL
• Amazonas – FAPEAM
• Goiás – FAPEG
• Minas Gerais – FAPEMIG
• Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS
• Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ
• Santa Catarina – FAPESC
• Paraíba – FAPESQ
• Tocantins – FAPT
• Ceará – FUNCAP
• Rondônia – FAPERO
Fundações de Amparo à Pesquisa (FAPs) participantes:
Critérios de elegibilidade 
devem ser consultadas 
previamente com as FAPs
 Apresentação de projetos e prazos
vO projeto deve ser apresentado no portal europeu da chamada 
no prazo: 28 de abril 2020
vParticipantes do Brasil devem em seguida apresentar o projeto 
também para a FAP envolvida na proposta, no prazo 21 de maio 
2020, seguindo as orientações detalhadas na chamada CONFAP 
MSCA RISE 2020
vProjetos podem ser aprovados pelas FAPs so se aprovados no 
processo de avaliação do H2020 
 Obrigada!       
Elisa Natola
Assessora para a Cooperação internacional Brasil-Europa
Ponto de Contato Nacional Marie Sklodowska Curie Actions (MSCA)
elisa.confap@gmail.com
  
 
This project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under 
grant agreement No 869178-AquaticPollutants 
 
 
 
 
 
Call Announcement 
Risks posed to human health and the environment by 
pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 
Publication Date: 17 February 2020 
Pre-proposal deadline: 18 May 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
i 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present 
in water resources 
Table of Contents 
 
 
1. 
Introduction ........................................................................................................................................ 1 
1.1. 
Objectives of the ERA-NET Cofund ................................................................................................... 1 
1.2. 
Objectives of the Joint Transnational Call ........................................................................................ 1 
2. 
Joint Transnational Call Description .................................................................................................... 3 
2.1. 
Strategic aim of the Joint Transnational Call .................................................................................... 3 
2.2. 
Theme of the Joint Transnational Call .............................................................................................. 3 
2.3. 
Scope of the Joint Transnational Call................................................................................................ 5 
2.4. 
Transdisciplinary approach & expected impacts .............................................................................. 5 
3. 
Call Structure ...................................................................................................................................... 6 
3.1. 
Participating countries ...................................................................................................................... 6 
3.2. 
Financial Commitment...................................................................................................................... 6 
3.3. 
Call Process ....................................................................................................................................... 8 
3.4. 
Dates and deadlines ......................................................................................................................... 9 
3.5. 
Confidentiality & Conflict of interest ................................................................................................ 9 
3.6. 
Publishable Information ................................................................................................................... 9 
3.7. 
Privacy Policy .................................................................................................................................. 10 
4. 
Eligibility criteria ............................................................................................................................... 11 
4.1. 
General eligibility check .................................................................................................................. 11 
4.2. 
National/regional eligibility criteria ................................................................................................ 11 
4.3. 
Eligibility of international research institutions & Advisory Board members of the JPIs ............... 11 
5. 
Recommendations of project proposals ............................................................................................ 13 
6. 
Application procedures ..................................................................................................................... 14 
6.1. 
Online Submission System .............................................................................................................. 14 
6.2. 
Further considerations ................................................................................................................... 15 
6.3. 
Ethical Issues ................................................................................................................................... 15 
7. 
Evaluation of Proposals .................................................................................................................... 16 
7.1. 
Evaluation Procedures .................................................................................................................... 16 
7.2. 
Evaluation Criteria .......................................................................................................................... 16 
7.3. 
Scoring System ................................................................................................................................ 18 
7.4. 
Funding recommendation .............................................................................................................. 18 
8. 
Project funding and reporting ........................................................................................................... 19 
8.1. 
Negotiation of grant agreements ................................................................................................... 19 
8.2. 
Consortium Agreement .................................................................................................................. 19 
8.3. 
Project Reporting ............................................................................................................................ 19 
8.4. 
Dissemination and communication ................................................................................................ 19 
A. 
GLOSSARY ......................................................................................................................................... 21 
B. 
COMPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTATION .............................................................................................. 22 
C. 
NATIONAL CONTACT POINTS (NCP) AND NATIONAL FUNDING REGULATIONS .................................. 23 
D. 
2020 JOINT TRANSNATIONAL CALL SECRETARIAT AND RELATED CONTACT DETAILS ......................... 26 
E. 
PILOT INITIATIVE - SCIENTIFIC NETWORKING AND TRANSFER PROJECTS (TP) ................................... 27 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
1 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
1. 
Introduction 
1.1. Objectives of the ERA-NET Cofund 
The overall goal of the proposed ERA-NET Cofund AquaticPollutants is to strengthen the European Research Area 
(ERA) in the field of clean and healthy aquatic ecosystems and to leverage untapped potential in the collaboration 
between the freshwater, marine and health research areas. The ERA-NET Cofund AquaticPollutants is a network 
of 32 ministries, authorities and funding organisations from 26 countries responsible for funding research and 
innovation projects in the field of clean and healthy aquatic ecosystems. . This joint call is being implemented by 
the funding organisations with co-funding from the European Union Horizon 2020 programme for research and 
innovation (ECGA No. 869178-AquaticPollutants). 
Within the framework of AquaticPollutants the Joint Programming Initiatives (JPIs) on Water, Oceans and 
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) are working closely together. A multidisciplinary approach has been set up, 
which brings together the research needs of the freshwater sector, the marine sector and the health sector to 
carry out a Joint Transnational Call (JTC) and complementary Additional Activities. This call will support the 
research communities of those three research fields to work together and create synergies for joint approaches. 
1.2. Objectives of the Joint Transnational Call 
The European Water Framework Directive (WFD), the Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) and the 
newly adopted European Green Deal, all require the European Union member states to reach good 
environmental status of their aquatic ecosystems (inland - freshwater and groundwater - and marine, including 
sediments). The European One Health Action Plan against AMR supports the EU and its Member States in 
delivering innovative, effective and sustainable responses to AMR, especially to reduce the emergence and 
spread of AMR and to increase the development and availability of new, effective antimicrobials inside and 
outside the EU. On a global scale, the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have set out a 
sustainable blueprint for the international community to improve human health, ensure provision of safe water 
for all and safeguard both marine and freshwater ecosystems by 2030. In addition, the World Health Organization 
(WHO) Global Action plan on antimicrobial resistance (2015) outlines the need to strengthen the knowledge and 
evidence base through surveillance and research and to reduce the incidence of infection through effective 
sanitation, hygiene and infection prevention measures. Despite these transnational ambitions, there are still 
major risks associated with the occurrence of emerging pollutants, pathogens and antimicrobial resistant 
bacteria, in our water bodies and oceans that may impact all of society. To tackle these challenges in a 
comprehensive way and to develop multidisciplinary and practical solutions for the provision of safe drinking 
water and healthy aquatic environments, the three JPIs on Water, Oceans and AMR are working together to 
strengthen collaboration in a joint research Call on Aquatic Pollutants.  
Emerging pollutants or contaminants of emerging concern (CEC - please see Definition in Glossary) are detected 
in the aquatic environment at low concentrations. The spectrum of these pollutants is broad and they derive 
from anthropogenic sources, especially from consumer products, urban areas, agriculture, animal husbandry 
farms, industry and maritime activities, and consequently end up in our rivers, estuaries and coastal ecosystems. 
These CEC and their transformation products are persistent and widely distributed and have been qualified as a 
risk to human health and environmental ecosystems that urgently needs to be addressed.  
The occurrence of pathogens and CECs in water resources is one of the most serious risks in our environment 
and is considered a major factor particularly in the degradation of water quality. Antimicrobial resistant 
organisms and genes are now widespread throughout the environment and pose a serious emerging risk for 
human health and well-being. Antimicrobial resistant bacteria enter the aquatic ecosystems through effluents 
from untreated domestic sewage, wastewater treatment plants, hospitals, pharmaceutical production and stock 
farming including aquaculture and the risk of resistant bacteria crossing the human-animal barrier. Pathogens, 
CECs and other pollutants do not recognize geographic borders making this a global challenge. However, the 
most unprotected and vulnerable populations to pollutants and pathogens present in water resources are found 
in low- and middle-income countries and regions. Therefore, the consideration of local contexts and inclusion of 
researchers from and research in these countries and regions is of particular importance. 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
2 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
Some of these pollutants and pathogens are known to harm aquatic ecosystems even at very low concentrations 
and in turn negatively influence the provision of safe and clean water for drinking water purposes. In aquatic 
organisms, serving as staple food, pollutants and antimicrobial resistant bacteria can accumulate and spread, 
and affect human or animal health or enter the food chain, causing further secondary effects.  
The input of these harmful substances into the aquatic environment must be avoided. This can be done by 
identifying the sources and assessing the corresponding practical measures, such as sustainable production 
methods and responsible handling of emerging pollutants. Further understanding and analysis of the behaviour 
of such pollutants, pathogens and antimicrobial resistant bacteria needs to be undertaken. Appropriate 
strategies for their detection and monitoring and solutions for preventing their spread and/or their removal need 
to be further developed. This will underpin strong and much needed policy and enforcement and inform 
appropriate decision-making. 
To undertake such actions, a holistic catchment approach for a better understanding of the ecological and human 
and animal health effects is necessary. The whole water cycle, from the sources through the river basins and 
eventually to the estuaries and oceans, has to be considered. This approach has to include soil and groundwater 
transport as well as potential atmospheric pathways that these pollutants may take. The effects to the human 
and animal health, the transport and transmission of harmful substances from the freshwater and marine 
environment to organisms via the food chain also need to be taken into account. 
In addition to the research and activities funded under the One Health European Joint Programming (EJP), the 
three participating JPIs have already implemented several activities dealing with the topics on risk management, 
CECs and antimicrobial resistant bacteria, for example the Water JPI Pilot Call 2013 on emerging contaminants, 
the 2015 Water JPI Joint Call on research and innovation for developing technological solutions and services for 
water systems, the 2016 Water JPI Joint Call on the sustainable management of water resources in agriculture, 
forestry and freshwater aquaculture sectors; the JPI AMR transmission dynamic call 2016, JPI AMR intervention 
call 2017, the JPI AMR Call on Diagnostics & Surveillance 2019, the JPI Oceans micro-plastics calls 2015 and 2018 
(considering their functions in pollutant migration), the MarTERA calls 2017 and 2019 and the EC research 
funding programmes (in particular FP7 and Horizon 2020). Furthermore, the actions carried out by the NORMAN 
Network and the COST action NEREUS should be considered. Results and expertise already developed from these 
previous and other relevant activities (e.g WHO Global Observatory on Health R&D) should be built on and 
considered within this call. 
The main research and innovation objectives of the AquaticPollutants 2020 Joint Transnational Call are: 
• 
to establish integrated and cross-sectoral approaches for risk management combining the research 
areas of emerging pollutants, pathogens and antimicrobial resistance under the overall topic “from 
the source to the mouth“; 
• 
to analyse the spread of CECs and pathogens related to antimicrobial resistance from the different 
sources (e.g. urban areas) that leads to impacts and risks on the aquatic ecosystem, environment and 
human health; 
• 
to describe the transformation of such CECs and pathogens and their effects when entering the 
different aquatic systems and accumulating in the food chain; 
• 
to improve strategies and develop/ evaluate technologies (incl. digital technologies) for reducing 
CECs and pathogens at the sources, on their pathways and end-of-pipe; and 
• 
to develop/ integrate innovative methodologies and tools to allow policy-makers to develop more 
effective policies and efficient regulations. 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
3 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
2. 
Joint Transnational Call Description 
2.1. Strategic aim of the Joint Transnational Call 
The 2020 Joint Transnational Call “Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and 
pathogens present in water resources” within the ERA-NET Cofund AquaticPollutants aims to address research 
and innovation to support the implementation of the global, EU and national water and health policies 
contributing to the strategic objectives of the JPIs on Water, Oceans and AMR. The following themes for the call 
are targeted in the thematic area from the Strategic Research and Innovation Agendas of the three JPIs:  
• 
“Developing Safe Water Systems for Citizens” of the Water JPI Strategic Research and Innovation 
Agenda  
• 
“Interdisciplinary Research for Good Environmental Status” of the JPI Oceans Strategic Research and 
Innovation Agenda 
• 
Priority topics “Diagnostics”, “Surveillance”, “Environment” and “Interventions” of the JPI AMR Strategic 
Research Agenda.  
2.2. Theme of the Joint Transnational Call  
Research & innovation proposals are invited to respond to at least one of the following themes: 
Theme 1 – Measuring - Environmental behaviour of contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), pathogens and 
antimicrobial resistant bacteria in aquatic ecosystems 
Subtheme 1.1 - Assessment of the significance of different potential sources, reservoirs and pathways of CECs 
and pathogens including antimicrobial resistant bacteria 
Proposals may cover: 
• 
Estimating the entry point of CECs and pathogens into the environment, with indication of the matrix 
to be analysed (water, sediment, biota) with a view to emission control at local and regional levels; 
and/or 
• 
Establishment of indicators and tracers allowing for the identification of sources and pathways of 
contamination/pollution. 
Subtheme 1.2 - Understanding and predicting the environmental and cumulative behaviours of contaminants 
of emerging concern (CECs) and pathogens including antimicrobial resistant bacteria, including the 
development of tools and digital solutions 
Proposals may cover: 
• 
Modelling of transport processes and fate of CECs and pathogens; and/or 
• 
Understanding the processes involved in the increase and degradation of contaminants of emerging 
concern (CECs) and pathogens and degradation/transformation products; and/or 
• 
Understanding of the extent to which CECs and pathogens are removed or modified, e. g. through water 
treatment plants or natural processes in soils, sediments and aquatic systems; and/or 
• 
Assessing the transfer time of different pollutants, as well as understanding the processes during 
transfer within the various compartments and from inland water to oceans; and/or 
• 
Assessing retention and degradation capacity of aquatic ecosystems; and/or 
• 
Identification of cumulative effects and mixtures; and/or 
• 
Assessing the biodegradation of antibiotics to estimate and anticipate antibiotic resistance transmission 
rates and assessing gene transfer; and/or 
• 
Evaluation of the transmission and changes of AMR and pathogens in aquatic ecosystems. 
Theme 2 – Evaluating - Risk Assessment and Management of contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), 
pathogens and antimicrobial resistant bacteria from aquatic ecosystems (inland, coastal and marine) to human 
health and environment 
Subtheme 2.1 - Characterising the exposure routes and effects of CECs and pathogens including antimicrobial 
resistant bacteria, on aquatic ecosystems and on human health 
Proposals may cover: 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
4 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
• 
Estimation of the transmission of pollutants and pathogens to and from the aquatic environment, biota 
and humans as well as through the food chain (trophic transfer) and via water exposures; and/or 
• 
Understanding the factors that control the bioavailability and fate of emerging pollutants, pathogens 
and antimicrobial resistant bacteria in organisms such as uptake, mode of action, biological end-points; 
and/or 
• 
Identification of human key-target groups with risk of higher exposure. 
Subtheme 2.2 - Development of integrated risk assessment and risk management procedures 
Proposals may cover:  
• 
Identification and selection of the main pollutants of emergent concern most widely distributed in 
aquatic environments, in order to establish a priority list of pollutants to be included into the risk 
management and monitoring plans; and/or 
• 
Including the effect of long-term exposure, the cumulative effects and the interplay between different 
pollutants acting with adverse impacts (on aquatic ecosystems as well as on human health) and 
antibiotics selecting for resistance in the environment; and/or 
• 
Assessing the occurrence and the toxicity of CEC in aquatic ecosystems; Expanding our knowledge base 
on antibiotic resistance in aquatic ecosystems; to establish thresholds values in continental, marine 
ecosystems and biota; and/or 
• 
Determination of the incremental health risk caused by environmental exposure to antibiotic resistant 
bacteria; Development and application of an integrated approach (chemical and biological) to reducing 
these risks; and/or 
• 
Determination of the incremental health risk caused by environmental exposures to antibiotic resistant 
bacteria; and/or 
• 
Assessing the occurrence of CECs in seafood, developing strategies to remove/reduce contaminants 
from seafood. 
Subtheme 2.3 - Parameters and strategies for monitoring potential antimicrobial resistant bacteria 
Proposals may cover: 
• 
Definition and validation of parameters and strategies for monitoring potential antibiotic resistant 
bacteria in aquatic environments from different sources and in relation with potential uses, and for 
defining threshold values and local guidelines for emitting sources and their organisations on maximum 
permissible contamination levels in aquatic ecosystems. 
Theme 3 – Taking Actions - Strategies to reduce contaminants of emerging concern (CECs), pathogens and 
antimicrobial resistant bacteria in aquatic ecosystems (inland, coastal and marine) 
Subtheme 3.1 – Implementation of strategies to reduce CECs and pathogens, including antimicrobial resistant 
bacteria at the source 
Proposals may cover: 
• 
Reduction at the source and/or downstream mitigation actions; both technical options and 
management aspects contributing to reduction at the source - such as end products, effects and 
acceptance, reduction of consumption, improve prudent and rational use of antibiotics. 
Subtheme 3.2 – Development of methods for preventing the spread of CECs and pathogens, including 
antimicrobial resistant bacteria 
Proposals may cover: 
• 
Improvement of combined treatments and sustainable treatment solutions leading to lower prevalence 
and spread of antimicrobial resistance, not only focussed in the removal of emerging pollutants. 
Subtheme 3.3 – Assessment of management measures and technologies to reduce the impact of CECs and 
pathogens including antimicrobial resistant bacteria, on water quality 
Proposals may cover:  
• 
Assessment of implemented management measures and technologies to reduce the impact of CECs and 
pathogens including antimicrobial resistant bacteria; and/or 
• 
Developing suitable indicator sets of established parameters for monitoring treatment processes; 
and/or 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
5 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
• 
Assessment of the contribution of management practices and treatment technologies in the formation 
of by-products or additional antimicrobial resistant bacteria during the processes, especially in 
wastewater treatment and reuse processes. 
2.3. Scope of the Joint Transnational Call 
✓ Emerging pollutants, pathogens and materials linked to antimicrobial resistance, their risks for human 
health and aquatic ecosystems, and the transfer between inland and marine environments will be the 
main topic of the call. 
✓ It is not mandatory to address emerging pollutants, pathogens and antimicrobial resistant bacteria 
simultaneously in one proposal. 
✓ Micro-plastics will not be subject to the call.  
Annex B and C of this document provide a matrix of the themes funded by each participating country/region and 
the national regulations.  
2.4. Transdisciplinary approach & expected impacts 
Tackling societal challenges always requires a transdisciplinary approach. Therefore, proposals should emphasize 
the participation of stakeholders and end-users (including industry) in research, and innovation actions 
(participatory approaches). 
Trans-disciplinary proposals including communication, mobility and education measures as well as data 
management approaches are recommended. Furthermore, it is expected, that proposals come up with 
contributions to new standards and norms. Proposals should showcase their research and innovation (R&I) in 
local or regional case studies and support the process of transferring and disseminating results to other regions 
also including low- and middle-income countries. 
Furthermore, the research works should address related European and international policies and contribute to 
the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations (UN SDG). 
The expected impact of the 2020 Joint Transnational Call is to: 
• 
Produce knowledge and innovative solutions in the scientific area of the three JPIs.  
• 
Enhance innovation capacity and integration and transfer of new knowledge. 
• 
Strengthen the competitiveness and growth of companies by developing innovations meeting the needs 
of European and global markets, including low- and middle-income countries and regions, and where 
relevant, by delivering such innovations to the public and private markets, including public 
administrators (public executive bodies) and civil society organisations. 
• 
Support the development of technological solutions and services for the implementation of 
international, EU and national policies in the water, marine, health and agricultural or environmental 
sector. 
• 
Support the generation of standardisation, regulation and the valorisation of research results. 
• 
Explicitly address the communication to society and knowledge transfer to stakeholders for future 
implementation (e.g. best practice models). 
• 
Help improving the scientific quality and societal relevance of the knowledge produced, technology 
and/or innovation in different socio-economic settings.  
• 
Support the implementation of the UN SDGs. 
• 
Encourage international cooperation and participation of the water, health and maritime community 
including partners from low- and middle-income countries and regions. 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
6 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
3. 
Call Structure 
3.1. Participating countries 
A total of 32 Funding Partner Organisations (FPOs) from 26 countries and 3 JPIs have agreed to launch a Joint 
Transnational Call for R&I proposals on the topic “Risks posed to human health and the environment by 
pollutants and pathogens present in water resources” in February 2020. 
 
The research projects initiated by this call can apply for funding or will get guidance (see national regulations) 
from the partner institutions of the AquaticPollutants consortium listed in Annex C. The Swedish International 
Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) will support researchers from African countries as specified in the 
national regulations. The participation of applicants from other countries is allowed, if they have their own 
separate source of funding or funds by another source is guaranteed (i.e. by a national or international funding 
organisation). In this case, the commitment of this must be provided upon submitting the pre-proposal. For more 
information on eligibility of international research institutions please see chapter 4.3. 
 
Applicants should note that, in some countries, several funding organisations participate in the call with different 
organisational rules and priorities. Applicants must pay attention to the national regulations and if questions 
arise, it is highly recommended to contact the NCPs before submitting a pre-proposal and full proposal.  
3.2. Financial Commitment 
A total of approx. 24,4 million Euro has been provisionally allocated for this Joint Transnational Call by the FPOs 
(Table 1). These funds will be used for R&I activities carried out by researchers, institutions and companies 
according to the funding rules and legal frameworks of their respective FPOs. 
 
Partners applying in a consortium cannot request more than their relevant FPO stated in the national/regional 
regulations in chapter 4.2 and as listed in Annex C. 
 
Table 1: AquaticPollutants FPOs  
Country/ Region 
 
Funding Partner Organisation 
National 
Contributions 
(tentative 
budget, EURO) 
 
 
Germany (DE) 
Forschungszentrum JÜLICH GmbH (Coordinator) 
Jülich 
 3.000.000 €  
Belgium (BE) 
Belgian Federal Science Policy Office 
BELSPO 
 500.000 €  
Belgium (BE) 
Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique 
F.R.S.-FNRS 
 200.000 €  
Belgium (BE) 
Research Foundation Flanders 
FWO 
 700.000 €  
Brazil (BR) 
Conselho Nacional das Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à 
Pesquisa 
CONFAP 
1.953.000 € 
Cyprus (CY) 
Research and Innovation Foundation 
RIF 
      400.000 €  
Czech Republic (CZ) 
Technology Agency of the Czech Republic 
TACR 
   1.000.000 €  
Denmark (DK) 
Innovationsfonden Denmark  
IFD 
   1.000.000 €  
Estonia (EE) 
Eesti Teadusagentuur  
ETAg 
      100.000 €  
Finland (FI) 
Academy of Finland 
AKA 
      850.000 €  
France (FR) 
Agence Nationale de la Recherche 
ANR 
2.000.000 € 
Greece* (GR) 
Ministry of Education, Research & Religious Affairs, General 
Secretariat for Research & Technology 
GSRT 
1.000.000 € 
Ireland (IE) 
Environmental Protection Agency 
EPA 
      500.000 €  
Israel (IL) 
Ministry of Health 
CSO-MOH 
      300.000 €  
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
7 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
Italy (IT) 
L’Agenzia Regionale per la Protezione dell’Ambiente 
ARPA 
      100.000 €  
Italy (IT) 
Ministry of Universities and Research 
MUR 
      500.000 €  
Latvia* (LT) 
Ministry of Education and Science 
IZM 
300.000 € 
Moldova (MD) 
National Agency for Research and Development 
NARD 
      100.000 €  
Norway (NO) 
Research Council of Norway 
RCN 
      500.000 €  
Poland (PL) 
National Centre for Research and Development  
NCBR 
      600.000 €  
Portugal (PT) 
Foundation for Science and Technology 
FCT 
      300.000 €  
Romania (RO) 
Unitatea Executiva pentru Finantarea Invatamantului 
Superior, a Cercetarii, Dezvoltarii si Inovarii 
UEFISCDI 
      600.000 €  
Scotland (UK) 
Scottish Enterprise 
SCOTENT 
      752.000 € 
South Africa (ZA) 
Water Research Commission 
WRC 
      130.000 €  
Spain (ES) 
State Research Agency 
AEI 
   1.000.000 €  
Spain (ES) 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III 
ISCIII 
      250.000 €  
Sweden (SE) 
Swedish Research Council for Environment, Agricultural 
Sciences and Spatial Planning 
FORMAS 
   1.500.000 €  
Sweden (SE) 
Swedish Research Council 
SRC 
   1.500.000 €  
Sweden* (SE) 
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency  
Sida 
1.420.000 € 
Taiwan (TW) 
Ministry of Science and Technology  
MoST 
500.000 € 
Tunisia (TN) 
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research 
MHSER 
      150.000 €  
Turkey (TR) 
The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey 
TUBITAK 
      750.000 €  
 
TOTAL in € 
24.455.000€ 
 
EU member states and Associated countries 
Third countries and other countries 
*Greece (GSRT) and *Latvia (IZM) was counted as “other countries” with regard to this call since their FPO 
participates in this joint call using structural funds. The FPO Sida (*Sweden) was counted as ”other countries” 
with regard to this call due to formal criteria. Please consider these information when setting up the 
consortium (pay attention with regard to the general eligibility criterion - consortium composition). 
Researchers from the following African countries will be funded by Sida (Swedish International Development 
Cooperation Agency): Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo (Dem. Rep.), 
Eritrea, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, 
Niger, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe. 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
8 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
3.3. Call Process 
The Joint Transnational Call will be advertised online from the following web pages:  
Online Submission Platform https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de;  
Water JPI - www.waterjpi.eu; JPI Oceans - www.jpi-oceans.eu; JPI AMR - www.jpiamr.eu. 
The application process consists of two consecutive steps: 
Step 1: TIMELINE IN REVISION! 
The Consortium Coordinator must submit a pre-proposal on behalf of the consortium, providing key data on the 
proposed project. The deadline for the submission of the pre-proposal is 18.05.2020, 17:00 CEST (Berlin time). 
 
Figure 1: Step 1 process (! New deadline for pre-proposal submission) 
Step 2: TIMELINE IN REVISION! 
The Consortium Coordinator must submit a full proposal on behalf of the consortium. The deadline for full 
proposal submission is 14.08.2020, 17:00 CEST (Berlin time). 
 
Figure 2: Step 2 process 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
9 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
The Annexes of this document provide the contact information of the NCPs in each participating 
country/region and the national regulations. It is required that each partner in a consortium checks their 
national/regional eligibility regulations and contacts his/her NCP(s) to be informed about the rules in his/her 
country/region prior to submission of a pre-proposal and a full proposal. 
3.4. Dates and deadlines 
3.5. Confidentiality & Conflict of interest 
Research plans (pre-proposals and full-proposals), abstracts, and evaluation statements are confidential 
documents. Proposal documents are therefore handled and stored with due care and confidentiality. 
AquaticPollutants consortium and its Call Secretariat ensures complete confidentiality to applicants during the 
evaluation process, i.e. the proposals will only be available to the national/regional funding organisations and 
the mandated experts responsible for the evaluation of the proposal. Experts appointed for the evaluation will 
sign a confidentiality agreement and will be asked to declare any conflict of interest. The proposals will be 
handled by the AquaticPollutants Call Secretariat. Each of the funding organizations will subsequently handle 
projects approved for funding. Accordingly, national law will govern. Projects approved for funding will be 
governed by the confidentiality rules in the national law of the funding organisations. 
The publishable information of the projects selected for funding as listed in section 0 will be published at the end 
of the call process. 
3.6. Publishable Information 
A list of the funded projects will be published at the end of the call process (once the projects have been selected). 
Therefore applicants should be aware that the following information from the proposals may be published by 
AquaticPollutants and FPOs for promotional purposes: (1) Project Title and Project Acronym, (2) Publishable 
abstract, (3) Duration of the project, (4) Total costs and total funding of the research project, (5) Organisation 
name and country of each partner, (5) Name of the Project Coordinator. 
Time Schedule of the Joint Transnational Call 
First Step: Submission of pre-proposals 
12 March 2020 
Webinar to clarify procedures with NCPs and Call Secretariat 
18 May 2020 (17:00 CEST) 
Update: due to the Corona pandemia we will postpone the 
deadline of pre proposal 
June 2020 
Communication of eligibility check and evaluation outcomes to 
the Consortium Coordinator 
Second Step: Submission of the full proposals 
14 August 2020 (17:00 CEST) 
Deadline submission of the full proposals 
October 2020  
Notification of evaluation outcomes and project selection to 
Consortium Coordinator 
October 2020 
Start of the contract negotiations with FPOs 
March 2021 
Start of the research & innovation projects 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
10 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
Each of the funding organizations will subsequently handle projects approved for funding. Accordingly, national 
law will govern. Projects approved for funding will be governed by the confidentiality rules in the national law of 
the funding organisations. 
3.7. Privacy Policy 
The Online Submission Tool provides information about the Privacy Policy. By submitting the application, the 
Consortium Coordinator and partners agree to the use, the share (for specific purposes: e.g. evaluation, for 
future nomination of experts, AquaticPollutants’ specific communication) and the storage of the information 
according to the Privacy Policy and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Further information on 
Privacy Policy is presented on the Online Submission Platform and the according JPI Websites.  
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
11 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
4. 
Eligibility criteria 
Partners should note that the general eligibility criteria (4.1) and the national regulations (4.2) are decisive for 
the evaluation step. Before submitting an application, the Consortium Coordinator should verify that all partners 
of the consortium have read their corresponding national/regional regulations. Coordinators and project 
partners must be aware that some national funding agencies require the submission of national documents in 
addition to the international pre-proposal. 
Proposals, which do not meet all 2020 Joint Transnational Call general eligibility criteria (4.1), will be declined 
without further review. Non-eligibility of a partner applying for funding in a proposal may cause the rejection 
of the entire proposal without further review.  
Proposals passing the eligibility check will be forwarded to the evaluators for assessment. The Call Secretariat 
(CS), on behalf of the Call Steering Committee (CSC), will communicate the results of the eligibility check and the 
decisions taken to the coordinator of each consortium. 
4.1. General eligibility check 
The general eligibility criteria are summarized in Table 2. In the case of not fulfilling these requirements, the 
proposal will not be considered for funding  
Please be aware that partners from countries/regions participating in the call must also meet the national criteria 
as outlined in the national regulations. 
4.2. National/regional eligibility criteria 
In addition to the general eligibility criteria, each project partner must ensure that his/her contribution to the 
overall project conforms to: 
• 
Where applicable, relevance of the proposal to the topic(s)/subtopic(s) of national/regional 
programmes and strategies; 
• 
Compliance with national/regional funding criteria and regulations; and 
• 
Compliance with limits to budget requests. 
The table in Annex C describes important restrictions related to each national/regional regulation.  
An empty cell means that no specific rules apply to that criterion. ATTENTION!: 
 means that you need to 
check the corresponding national/regional regulations available in the 2020 Joint Transnational Call website 
and/or on the FPOs’ website. 
4.3. Eligibility of international research institutions & Advisory Board members of the JPIs 
The following eligibility rules count for international research institutions:  
• 
The Joint Research Centre (JRC) can participate in a proposal as a partner. Coordinating the proposal is 
not possible, since they do not “belong” to any FPO country. They will have to participate at their own 
expenses (as in Framework Programmes and Horizon 2020) (they are not, as stated above, an eligible 
institution for any of the FPOs). They will not count in the "three different eligible entities" rule from 
three different FPO countries for eligibility purposes.  
• 
Partners from countries not participating in the Call may join consortia (but not as coordinator), but 
participation will be at the institutions' own expense. Moreover, such partners will have to demonstrate 
in the proposal that they will achieve the related tasks. The formal signed letter of availability of funds 
should be included in the pre-proposal as an annex. 
• 
International institutions, e.g. UN institutions, need to investigate their respective national eligibility 
guidelines for national and/or global funding. 
• 
Members of the Advisory Boards of the three JPIs can apply to the Joint Transnational Call as participant 
in a project for funding, but not as a project coordinator. The direct involvement of Advisory Board 
members in proposals will limit their potential role as advisors to the JPI activities related to the Joint 
Calls.  
 
 
Table 2: General Eligibility Criteria 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
12 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
Scope 
Proposals must address one main theme but may also include several themes described in 
section 2.2 
Proposals must address at least one of the entire sub-themes – Applicants are encouraged to 
integrate more than one sub-theme in their proposals; 
Topics of the proposals must be in the scope of the Joint Transnational Call. 
Consortium 
composition 
Each consortium must be composed of eligible independent entities requesting funding to FPOs 
from a minimum of three different EU Member States or H2020 Associated countries (listed in 
Table 1 in grey). FPOs listed in the category of ”third countries and other countries” are not 
included in the minimum requirements for consortia composition. 
In each proposal, one of the entities must act as the Consortium Coordinator who has the 
responsibility for submitting the proposal. The Consortium Coordinator must be eligible to be 
funded by one of the EU member States or H2020 Associated countries (listed in Table 1 in grey). 
A Consortium Coordinator can only participate in one proposal (i.e. if the principal investigator 
is the Consortium Coordinator of a proposal, he/she cannot participate in any other proposal, 
neither as a Consortium Coordinator nor as a partner). 
The workload distribution within a consortium must be balanced, and no partner should have 
more than 50% of person months. 
There is the upper limit of 8 eligible project partners per consortium (including self funded 
partners). The maximum number of partners from the same country within the consortium must 
comply with national/regional regulations.  
No more than one self-funded project partner per consortium is allowed.  
Project partners who are not eligible for funding may participate at their own expense or if they 
have their own separate source of funding. The applicants have to prove (letter of 
intent/commitment) the willingness to self-fund their own activities or the willingness of other 
partners to fund their own activities. They have to follow the rules given in this Call 
Announcement and have to be part of the consortium agreement. However, they cannot 
coordinate a project. They are not considered in the minimum requirement of eligible partners 
and countries in the AquaticPollutants eligibility criteria. 
Researchers from FPOs participating in the AquaticPollutants ERA-Net Cofund consortium or 
affiliated institutions (JÜLICH, TUBITAK, ISPRA) cannot apply to this Call. 
Duration 
Project duration must be a maximum of 36 months.  Funded consortia will be asked to agree on 
a common starting date. The last possible end date for the projects is the 30th of June 2024. 
Submission 
Proposals must be received before the deadlines. 
The pre-proposal and the full proposal must be submitted correctly and completely before the 
respective deadlines via the Submission Tool (https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de) according to the 
Application Procedure (Chapter 6) and the Guidelines for Proposal Submission (published on the 
Submission Tool website). Applicants should note that failure to comply with the submission 
rules will cause ineligibility of the project and therefore exclusion from the application process. 
Proposals must be written in the English. 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
13 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
5. 
Recommendations of project proposals 
All partners within a consortium should take into consideration the recommendations for setting up their project 
proposals. 
Scope 
• 
Proposals should go beyond the state of the art by providing high quality R&I and, when appropriate, 
make use of innovative technologies, approaches and concepts to do so; 
• 
Proposals should consider on-going research activities funded by other instruments, programmes or 
projects. Cooperation with these activities is of high importance; 
• 
Proposals should consider and incorporate as approporiate cross-cutting issues, such as socio-economic 
and/or capacity development. 
• 
Collaboration with the parallel running Transfer Project during execution is encouraged, but not 
compulsory. 
Consortium composition 
• 
All proposals should consider geographical balance and implementation in relevant geographic settings, 
including in low- and middle-income countries and regions. 
• 
It is encouraged but not compulsory to involve stakeholders (i.e. small and medium enterprises (SMEs), 
industries, authorities, public administrations, associations, as well as civil society organisations) as 
partners or associated partners. The modalities of participation of stakeholders are defined in the 
national regulations.  
• 
All proposals should integrate the gender dimension of R&I activities. 
Budget 
There is no limit of total budget for proposals - The requested budget of proposals is limited by the number of 
eligible partners and by the budget of each partner. Please consider the national regulations of each FPO with 
regard to the specific budget limitations. 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
14 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
6. 
Application procedures 
A two-step application procedure will be used in this Joint Transnational Call. Pre-proposals and full proposals 
must be submitted electronically via a specifically designed web platform, the Submission Tool 
(https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de), using the templates provided. The link to the Submission Tool is available on 
the official 2020 Joint Transnational Call website of the 3 JPIs. 
Applicants should note that the online system may experience high traffic volumes in the last hours before the 
submission deadline and it is therefore highly recommended to submit the final version of the pre / full-proposal 
well in advance of the deadline to avoid any last-minute technical problems. The requests for extensions to the 
deadline due to last minute technical problems will not be considered. 
6.1. Online Submission System 
Step 1 (Pre-proposal stage) 
1. In a first step, the Consortium Coordinator creates an account on the AquaticPollutants Submission 
Platform. 
2. The coordinator can enter, edit and save the electronic forms, add partners to the consortium, upload 
the project description and submit the proposal. Partners can enter and edit their own data only. 
3. It is possible to update and submit as many times as necessary the pre-proposal until the submission 
deadline (16 April 2020, 17:00 CEST). 
4. Applicants should note that core data are fixed at this stage. In particular, the funding requested by each 
partner cannot be increased in the second stage. 
The submission of a pre-proposal is mandatory. It is not possible to enter the application procedure at a later 
stage. The information given in the pre-proposal will be used to check for eligibility and to evaluate the pre-
proposal. 
For any technical questions regarding the submission, please contact the AquaticPollutants Call Secretariat.  
Please note, that some of the partners will also need to submit an application directly to their respective 
national/regional FPOs. For further details about these procedures and schedule, please consult the 
national/regional regulations and/or your NCP.  
Step 2 (Full proposal stage) 
The second step of the application consists of the submission of a more extensive full proposal. Only research 
consortia which successfully passed the first step will be invited to submit a full proposal. 
All rules mentioned in the pre-proposal stage apply for this stage as well. Below the steps are described that 
need to be considered by the Consortium Coordinator and the project partners. 
1. The submission tool will be open for invited consortia. 
2. The information provided in the pre-proposal will be automatically imported into the full proposal. 
3. The coordinator can enter, edit and save all new information according to the guidelines of the full 
proposal in the submission tool. 
Applicants should note that information on the core data (e.g. funding requested or institutions) cannot be 
changed in full proposals, unless explicitly requested by evaluators, a funding organisation or the CSC. When 
applying, keep in mind that the submission system will close at 17:00 CEST of the deadline date established for 
both Step 1 and Step 2. However, the CS can only ensure responses to email support requests up to 13:00 CEST. 
The respective email contacts by the CS and NCPs are listed in this document (Annexes C and D). 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
15 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
6.2. Further considerations 
Applicants should also take into consideration the following advice: 
• 
All Partners and the Consortium Coordinator must comply with the applicable national and EU rules and 
legal provisions, for instance about competition and EU State aid rules, environment, utilisation of 
genetic resources, equal opportunity and gender, and public contracting whenever applicable. 
• 
Plan and complete the application process as soon as possible to avoid an overload of the system near 
the deadline and ensure the support by the CS or the NCPs in case of need. 
• 
The financial plan and allocation of resources (table available in the electronic submission system and 
filled in by the Consortium Coordinator following the instructions given by all Partners) should be 
coherent with the work plan proposed. Funding requests which are not adequately justified may affect 
the evaluation score given to the proposal. 
6.3. Ethical Issues 
Ethical issues are taken into account in the scientific evaluation of proposals and when making the funding 
decisions. Applicants should always describe any relevant ethical aspects in their research plans. If a research 
permit or a statement by an ethics committee is required for the implementation of the project, applicants 
should provide information on the permits or permit proposals. 
Any proposal which seems to contravene fundamental ethical principles will not be selected and may be excluded 
from the evaluation and selection procedure. Judgment of the significance of ethical issues will be made by using 
the criteria published by the Commission in its guidelines for the Horizon 2020 Framework Programme  
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
16 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
7. 
Evaluation of Proposals 
7.1. Evaluation Procedures 
Step 1 (Pre-proposal stage) 
Pre-proposals that are submitted correctly and within the deadline will be checked for eligibility against criteria 
defined in chapter 4 by the Call Secretariat and according to national/regional criteria (see national regulations) 
at a national/regional level. 
All eligible pre-proposals will be subject to a scientific evaluation by at least three external evaluators based on 
two criteria - ‘Excellence’ and ‘Impact’ (see Table 3). A ranked list of pre-proposals will be produced based on 
the final scores. 
The objective of this first step is to identify the best proposals to proceed to Step 2 and ensure the balance 
between the requested and available funds at the national level.  
Consortium Coordinators will be informed of the outcome by the AquaticPollutants Call Secretariat and, if 
appropriate, invited to submit a full proposal.  
Step 2 (Full proposal stage) 
After the submission deadline for full proposals, the submitted full proposals will be checked to ensure that they 
meet the formal call criteria and have not changed substantially from the respective pre-proposals. Full proposals 
not meeting the formal conditions will be rejected without further review.  
All full proposals will be subject to an international peer review by an Evaluation Panel (EP) based on three 
criteria - ‘Excellence’, ‘Impact’ and ‘Quality and Efficiency of Implementation’.  
Each proposal will be reviewed by at least three EP members (with experience in the domain of the relevant 
proposal). Each expert is independent of any funding organisation involved in this call and the CSC will ensure 
that no Conflict of Interest exists concerning the proposals evaluated.  
The EP will be headed by a Chair. The Panel Chair will be a regular member of the panel with the added duties 
of moderating the panel meeting and conveying the results of the discussions to the CSC. For each proposal a 
rapporteur will be nominated (one of the evaluators of a project appointed to this role). The rapporteur should 
ensure that, before the Panel meeting, the experts, who carried out the individual evaluation for a given 
proposal, have exchanged their views and agreed to a consensus assessment for each proposal and have 
prepared a common draft Evaluation Summary Report (ESR).  
All proposals will be discussed by the full EP, barring Conflicts of Interest, and their relative merit assessed. During 
the Panel Meeting the evaluation results for each full proposal will be presented by the rapporteur and 
discussion can take place. Panel members will then reach an agreement on the proposals’ final evaluation scores 
and the comments to be transmitted to the applicants. A ranked list of proposals will be produced based on the 
final scores.  
The final ranking list will be forwarded to the CSC which will meet to decide on the projects to be recommended 
for funding by FPOs. For this decision, the CSC will take into account the order of the ranking list from the EP and 
the funding availability. The applicants will be informed about the final outcome of the call. 
The Call Secretariat will be the contact point for the reviewers throughout the evaluation period and will assist 
the panel during the panel evaluation meeting. An independent expert will be invited as external observer to 
the Panel meeting to assess the conformity of the general procedure.  
7.2. Evaluation Criteria 
If the pre-proposal or full proposal are eligible regarding the general and national eligibility checks, the following 
scoring system will be applied. The evaluation is based on the following award review criteria: 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
17 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
Table 3: Evaluation criteria 
Excellence  
Impact 
Implementation  
Threshold: 3/5 
Threshold: 3/5 
Threshold: 3/5 
1.1 Relevance to the AquaticPollutants 
Thematic themes (Scope) 
1.2 Qualification, scientific expertise 
and transfer experience of the 
consortium  
- 
Are the participants in the proposal 
well-suited and committed to the 
tasks assigned to them (necessary 
expertise)?  
- 
Do the participants adequately 
complement each other?  
1.3 Sound concept and quality of 
objectives  
- 
Is the methodology and research 
design adequate to the proposed 
objectives? 
1.4 Innovation level (progress beyond 
the state of the art) 
- 
Is the proposal contributing and/or 
increasing the advance of the S&T 
knowledge? 
- 
Does the proposal take scientific 
and/or technological risk? Does the 
proposal have a potential 
breakthrough despite this risk-
taking? 
1.5 Quality of the S/T approach and 
methodology  
- 
Are the proposal objectives clear, 
feasible, suitable and focused 
especially with regard to methods 
and management of scientific risks? 
 
 
 
2.1 Extent to which the 
proposed project is suitably 
ambitious in terms of its 
strategic impact on reinforcing 
competitiveness or on solving 
societal or environmental 
problems at European and 
international level? 
- 
Is there an impact on 
enhancing innovation 
capacity, creating new 
market opportunities, 
strengthening 
competitiveness and 
growth of companies, or 
bring other important 
benefits for society; 
2.2 Extent to which the 
research and innovation-
related activities and 
exploitation and/or 
dissemination plans are 
adequate to ensure optimal 
use of the project results. 
- 
Are there feasible 
exploitation plan and 
dissemination of the 
scientific project results 
(including management 
and IPR) 
- 
Are the expected results or 
the knowledge acquired of 
importance for economic/ 
societal sectors and the 
economic development? 
2.3 Added value of European 
transnational co-operation and 
networking 
3.1 Quality and effectiveness 
of the work plan, the 
consortium, the management 
structures and procedures   
- 
Is the proposed 
organization and 
management of the 
scientific project effective 
and efficient? 
- 
Are the management 
structures and procedures, 
including risk and 
innovation management, 
appropriate? 
- 
Are the resources assigned 
to the work packages in 
line with their objectives 
and deliverables? 
3.2 Appropriateness of the 
allocation of tasks 
- 
Are the tasks well balanced 
among partners? 
3.3 Appropriateness of the 
partners and justification of 
the resources to be committed 
(budget, staff, equipment …) 
- 
Are the estimated costs 
appropriate? 
- 
Is it ensured that all 
participants have a valid 
role and adequate 
resources in the project to 
fulfil that role? 
- 
Do the work and financial 
plan plus the time schedule 
show prospects for 
success? 
- 
Is there a balance of 
scientific and financial 
contributions from 
respective countries' 
partners? 
Overall score Threshold: 10/15 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
18 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
7.3. Scoring System 
Evaluation scores will be awarded globally for each of the three criteria, but not at the level of the sub-criteria. 
The sub-criteria are issues which the expert should consider in the assessment of that criterion. They also act as 
reminders of issues to rise later during the discussions of the proposal. Each criterion will be scored out of 5 (no 
half-marks allowed). 
The scores indicate the following with respect to the criterion under examination. 
The threshold for inviting to Step 2 will be defined by the CSC in view of the results of the evaluation. The eligible 
pre-proposals will be divided in 3 groups, according to their scores: Group A (highest evaluation scores), Group 
B (medium evaluation scores) and Group C (low evaluation scores). All pre-proposals in Group A, if funds will be 
available, will be invited to Step 2. Among the pre-proposals in Group B, considering that they are all in the same 
quality category, proposals will be selected to Step 2, taking into account the representativeness of all FPOs and 
the requested and available funding per FPO. Pre-proposals in Group C are dismissed for their low classification 
and unviability of funding. The threshold for individual criteria will be 3. The overall threshold, applying to the 
sum of the three individual scores, will be 10. 
Evaluators will identify strengths and weaknesses (if any) for each criterion and provide context for their 
comments based on the application, i.e. evaluators will be asked to score proposals as they were submitted, 
rather than on their potential if certain changes were to be made. When an evaluator identifies substantial 
shortcomings, he/she must reflect this by awarding a lower score for the criterion concerned. There should be 
consistency between the numerical scores and written comments. 
The following approach will be applied for every group of proposals with the same scoring, and which require 
prioritisation: 
• 
Precedence of criteria: The scores in the criterion “Excellence” take precedence over “Impact” and this 
over “Quality and Efficiency of the Implementation” (only for Step 2); 
• 
If a distinction still cannot be made, the Panel members may decide to approve additional factors. These 
factors will be documented in the Evaluation Report. 
NOTE: No appeal can be brought to challenge the evaluation results or decisions of the CSC. 
7.4. Funding recommendation 
Based on the ranking lists of the full proposals described above, projects will be recommended for 
national/organisational funding by the CSC. The final funding decision will be made by the FPOs and be subject 
to budgetary considerations with the goal to optimize usage of available budget. 
Formal funding decisions are made by the participating funding organisations. The funding recommendation is 
irrevocable and therefore no redress procedure is possible. 
0 – LIMITED - The proposal fails to address the criterion or cannot be assessed due to 
missing or incomplete information. 
1 – POOR - The criterion is inadequately addressed, or there are serious inherent 
weaknesses. 
2 - FAIR - The proposal broadly addresses the criterion, but there are significant 
weaknesses. 
3 – GOOD - The proposal addresses the criterion well, but a number of shortcomings are 
present. 
4 – VERY GOOD - The proposal addresses the criterion very well, but a small number of 
shortcomings are present. 
5 – EXCELLENT - The proposal successfully addresses all relevant aspects of the criterion. 
Any shortcomings are minor. 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
19 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
8. 
Project funding and reporting 
8.1. Negotiation of grant agreements 
After a positive funding recommendation, the outcome of this process will be communicated by the CS to the 
Consortium Coordinators, who will then have to inform the PIs of the project partners. The project partners must 
directly contact their NCP in order to start the contract negotiation and accomplish the remaining steps until the 
research project can start. 
The Consortium Coordinator is responsible for synchronising the project start with his/her partners. 
Each funding organisation will fund its own national/regional partner(s) within the project (funding of project 
partners is provided by the participating funding programmes according to applicable national/organisational 
funding rules). 
Applicants are therefore strongly advised to consider the national regulations published in Annex C of this 
document. 
8.2. Consortium Agreement 
Successful consortia should negotiate a Consortium Agreement before commencement of the project. This 
should address matters such as the regulation of intellectual property rights, decision making and actions to be 
taken in the event of unsatisfactory performance by one or more partners. In some countries/regions, such an 
agreement might be required for release of the funds. Applicants have to obey national/organisational 
regulations (national regulations) regarding this issue. Support for the preparation of a Consortium Agreement 
can be found on the DESCA webpage http://www.desca-2020.eu/.  
Upon request, this consortium agreement must be made available to the concerned funding organisations.  
8.3. Project Reporting 
In addition to the reporting required by the national/organisational rules, Consortium Coordinators will be 
required to submit a Mid-term Progress Report and a Final Report (and deliverables needed to monitor the 
progress) to the CSC according to common templates which will be provided to them. All partners will have to 
deliver input for these reports. The monitoring will be conducted during the life span of the project. 
Funding recipients must ensure that all outcomes (publications, etc.) of transnational 2020 Joint Transnational 
Call projects include a proper acknowledgement of AquaticPollutants, Water JPI, JPI Oceans, JPI AMR, the EC, 
and the respective FPOs. 
In addition, each project partner must comply with the reporting requirements of its respective national FPOs. 
More information on the monitoring and reporting procedures will be provided to the coordinators of the 
projects recommended for funding. 
8.4. Dissemination and communication 
AquaticPollutants will organise a minimum of three events for the projects funded in the frame of the present 
call (see Table 4). Relevant stakeholders will be invited to these events. Funded projects should dedicate 
appropriate resources for dissemination activities including for participation in activities organised by 
AquaticPollutants. 
Table 4: Meetings of AquaticPollutants 
Events 
Participants 
When 
Where 
AquaticPollutants Kick-off 
meeting of the selected 
projects  
Coordinators and partners of 
funded projects, 
stakeholders, CSC 
Spring 2021 
tbc 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
20 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
AquaticPollutants Mid-term 
Meeting  
Coordinators of funded 
projects, CSC, stakeholders  
Autumn 2022 
tbc 
AquaticPollutants Final 
Meeting  
Coordinators and partners of 
funded projects, 
stakeholders, CSC 
Spring 2024 
tbc 
 
Dissemination and exploitation 
Dissemination of project results is essential and the dissemination plan should propose communication routes, 
such as scientific papers, posters, courses or training material, web based tools, workshops or direct intervention 
towards end users. 
Dissemination to national end-users is necessary in all partner countries. A dissemination plan will be requested 
for the full proposal and should specify how the planned activities will contribute to the impact of the project. 
In addition to their own dissemination activities, funded projects can be supported by the Aquatic Pollutants 
Transfer Project (funded in a separate call for proposals for Scientific Networking and Transfer Projects) for 
activities on scientific networking, knowledge transfer and public engagement in order to strengthen the 
dissemination of results and transfer results to policy, economy and society (please see Annex E). 
 
Open Access and Open Data 
The optimisation of the impact of publicly-funded scientific research is of fundamental importance to improve 
conditions to i) minimise the time spent searching for information and accessing it, ii) be able to speed up 
scientific progress, and iii) make it easier to cooperate across and beyond the EU.  
Open Access requirements for all scientific publications produced by the projects funded by the Joint 
Transnational Call 2020 will support Green Open Access (immediate or delayed open access provided through 
self-archiving), or Gold Open Access (immediate open access provided by a publisher for the most important 
outputs). In the case of Green Open Access, partners will (as soon as possible and at the latest on publication) 
deposit a machine-readable electronic copy of the published version or final peer-reviewed manuscript accepted 
for publication in a repository for scientific publications. In addition, partners will ensure open access to the 
deposited publication and bibliographic metadata. 
In case of any Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) issue for some project data and products the consortium may 
decide to go for Opt Out Option and cover this within the project consortium agreement.  
In case of any IPR issue, projects can go for Opt Out Option before or after the signature of the consortium 
agreement (thereby freeing themselves from the associated obligations) on the following grounds: 
• 
Incompatibility with the need for confidentiality in connection with security issues; 
• 
Incompatibility with rules on protecting personal data; 
• 
If there are other legitimate reasons not to provide open access to research data. 
Depending on the funding rules of the FPOs, the costs related to the implementation of these provisions are 
eligible for reimbursement during the duration of the grant. A proposal will not be evaluated more favourably if 
the consortium agrees to share its research data, or will it be penalised if it opts-out. 
All funded projects will be requested to submit metadata to the AquaticPollutants Open Data Contact Point on 
all the data resources directly generated by the project, as well as additional information on how these data will 
be exploited, if and how data will be made accessible for verification and re-use, and how it will be curated and 
preserved. Metadata and additional information will be made publicly available via the JPI websites. All specific 
information and procedures on this issue will be provided on the JPIs website.  
Regarding access and benefit, sharing of genetic resources is required for the implementation of the project, 
applicants shall provide information on the permits or permit proposals to the public. 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
21 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
A. GLOSSARY 
2020 Joint Transnational Call 
Call for Research and Innovation (R&I) proposals, published by the AquaticPollutants ERA-NET in year 2020. 
AquaticPollutants 
ERA-NET project supported by the European Comission in the frame of Horizon 2020 
ERA-NET 
Is an instrument under Horizon 2020 designed to support public-public partnerships in their preparation, 
establishment of networking structures, design, implementation and coordination of joint activities as well as 
topping up single Joint Transnational Calls and actions of a transnational nature.  
AquaticPollutants Call Secretariat (CS) 
The AquaticPollutants Call Secretariat, hosted by Projektträger Jülich, Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH, 
Germany, is the central contact point for applicants regarding all technical and general issues of the submission. 
Associated Partner  
All institutions who do not apply for or are not eligible for funding from FPOs, may join an application if they are 
interested in the research results or see an added value joining the project. They can participate in a project as 
associated partners, but have to pay for their own participation and receive no financial support from the funding 
organizations involved. Associated Partner don’t belong formally to the project consortium. 
Call Steering Committee (CSC) 
The Call Steering Committee (CSC) will be composed of one representative per participating funding 
organisations and will be the decision-making body in the framework of this call. 
Consortium/Consortia  
Transnational group(s) of partners, submitting collaborative R&I proposals, from at least 3 countries with FPOs 
involved in the Call, including eligible entities from at least 3 EU Member States or Horizon 2020 Framework 
Programme Associated countries. 
Consortium Coordinator (CC) 
Coordinator of the transnational collaborative research, development and innovation proposal. Coordinates the 
submission of the proposal prepared by the partners to the 2020 Joint Transnational Call online submission 
system, represents the Consortium before the CSC an the CS and, if funded, is responsible for the internal project 
management. 
Contaminants of emerging concern (CECs)  
Contaminants of emerging concern (CECs) is a designation that can be attributed to compounds that may have 
been present in the aquatic environment in the past but which only recently have raised concern about their 
ecological or human health impacts. Although CECs refers most commonly to chemicals, the broad perception 
herein presented applies also to microorganisms, such as antibiotic resistant bacteria and their antibiotic 
resistance genes, or particles, such as nanoparticles or microplastics. (Definition by the Water JPI Knowledge Hub 
of CECs, Microplastics are not included in the 2020 Joint Transnational Call)  
Funding Partner Organisation (FPO)  
Ministries and authorities contributing financially to the call. 
Funding rate 
Reimbursement rate of the eligible project costs which will be used to calculate the funding per partner according 
to the national/regional programmes. 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
22 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Each participating Funding Partner Organisation in this call has nominated NCP(s) to provide information on 
national/regional funding rules and procedures. It is required that each partner in a consortium contacts his/her 
NCP prior to the submission of pre-proposals. 
Principal Investigator (PI) 
Researcher/Leader of the research team of an applicant organisation/institution. 
Project costs 
The total sum of all eligible costs that are necessary for the implementation of the foreseen project. Regarding 
the conditions for eligibility of costs please contact your NCP. 
Project funding 
The total sum of the funding, which will be granted by the Funding Partner Organisations to the project partners. 
The amount of funding that each project partner can receive depends on the national funding rules.  
Self-funded project partner  
Project partners who are not eligible for funding may participate at their own expense or if they have their own 
separate source of funding. The applicants have to prove (letter of intent/commitment) the willingness to self-
fund their own activities or the willingness of other partners to fund their own activities. They have to follow the 
rules given in this Call Announcement and be part of the consortium agreement. 
B. COMPLEMENTARY DOCUMENTATION 
• 
Guidelines for proposal submission 
• 
National/regional regulations (including National Contact Points)  
All the documents are available for download: Online Submission Platform https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
23 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
C. NATIONAL CONTACT POINTS (NCP) AND NATIONAL FUNDING REGULATIONS 
Country 
Funding 
Partner 
Organisation 
(FPO) 
National/Regional Contact Point (NCP) 
NOT Funding 
All Themes 
and  
Sub-Topics 
Limits on 
Requested 
Budget per 
proposal 
NOT all types 
of partners 
are eligible for 
funding 
Different rules 
apply for 
different types 
of institutions 
Partners need 
to submit 
documentation 
to their FPO 
Name 
Email address 
Germany (DE) 
Jülich 
Stefanie Pietsch 
Christian Stolle 
ptj-aquapollut.call@fz-juelich.de  
 
 
 
 
 
Belgium (BE) 
BELSPO 
Koen Lefever 
koen.lefever@belspo.be 
 
 
 
 
 
Belgium (BE) 
F.R.S.-FNRS 
Joël Groeneveld 
joel.groeneveld@frs-fnrs.be  
 
 
 
 
 
Belgium (BE) 
FWO 
Toon Monbaliu 
eranet@fwo.be  
 
 
 
 
 
Brazil (BR) 
CONFAP 
Elisa Natola 
elisa.confap@gmail.com 
 
 
 
 
 
Cyprus (CY) 
RIF 
Anna Maria Christoforou 
amchristoforou@research.org.cy  
 
 
 
 
 
Czech Republic 
(CZ) 
TACR 
Michaela Křiklánová 
michaela.kriklanova@tacr.cz  
 
 
 
 
 
Denmark (DK) 
IFD 
Martin Kyvsgaard 
martin.kyvsgaard@innofond.dk  
 
 
 
 
 
Estonia (EE) 
ETAg 
Margit Suuroja 
margit.suuroja@etag.ee  
 
 
 
 
 
Finland (FI) 
AKA 
Vesa Yli-Pelkonen 
vesa.yli-pelkonen@aka.fi  
 
 
 
 
 
France (FR) 
ANR 
Simon Coulet 
Armelle Montrose 
anrteam-
aquaticpollutants@agencerecherche.fr  
 
 
 
 
 
Greece (GR) 
GSRT 
Sofia Dimitropoulou 
s.dimitropoulou@gsrt.gr 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
24 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
Country 
Funding 
Partner 
Organisation 
(FPO) 
National/Regional Contact Point (NCP) 
NOT Funding 
All Themes 
and  
Sub-Topics 
Limits on 
Requested 
Budget per 
proposal 
NOT all types 
of partners 
are eligible for 
funding 
Different rules 
apply for 
different types 
of institutions 
Partners need 
to submit 
documentation 
to their FPO 
Name 
Email address 
Ireland (IE) 
EPA 
Lisa Sheils 
l.sheils@epa.ie    
 
 
 
 
 
Israel (IL) 
CSO-MOH 
Dr. Irit Allon 
Orly Spivak 
irit.allon@moh.gov.il  
orlee.f@gmail.com   
 
 
 
 
 
Italy (IT) 
ARPA 
Vincenzo Infantino 
Broni Hornsby 
vinfantino@arpa.sicilia.it  
aquaticpollutants@arpa.sicilia.it  
 
 
 
 
 
Italy (IT) 
MUR 
Aldo Covello 
Valeria Cardia 
aldo.covello@miur.it  
valeria.cardia@miur.it  
 
 
 
 
 
Latvia (LT) 
IZM 
Kaspars Karolis 
Kaspars.karolis@izm.gov.lv  
 
 
 
 
 
Moldova (MD) 
NARD 
Viorica Boaghi,  
Olga Davidenco 
Viorica.boaghi@gmail.com, 
Olga.davidenco@ancd.gov.md  
 
 
 
 
 
Norway (NO) 
RCN 
Ivar Berthling 
itb@rcn.no 
 
 
 
 
 
Poland (PL) 
NCBR 
Kinga Szymańska-Rzeźnik 
kinga.szymanska@ncbr.gov.pl  
 
 
 
 
 
Portugal (PT) 
FCT 
Rui Munhá 
Germana Santos 
rui.munha@fct.pt 
germana.santos@fct.pt 
 
 
 
 
 
Romania (RO) 
UEFISCDI 
Mihaela Manole 
Nicoleta Dumitrache 
Mihaela.manole@uefiscdi.ro  
Nicoleta.dumitrache@uefiscdi.ro  
 
 
 
 
 
Scotland (UK) 
SCOTENT 
Karen Fraser 
karen.fraser@scotent.co.uk   
 
 
 
 
 
South Africa (ZA) WRC 
Tiyani Chauke 
Tiyanic@wrc.org.za  
 
 
 
 
 
Spain (ES) 
AEI 
Abraham Trujillo Quintela 
Esther Chacón   
aquapollutants@aei.gob.es 
Esther.chacon@aei.gob.es  
 
 
 
 
 
Spain (ES) 
ISCIII 
Mauricio Garcia-Franco 
mauriciog@isciii.es  
 
 
 
 
 
Sweden (SE) 
FORMAS 
Petra Wallberg 
petra.wallberg@formas.se  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
25 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
Country 
Funding 
Partner 
Organisation 
(FPO) 
National/Regional Contact Point (NCP) 
NOT Funding 
All Themes 
and  
Sub-Topics 
Limits on 
Requested 
Budget per 
proposal 
All types of 
partners are 
eligible for 
funding 
Different rules 
apply for 
different types 
of institutions 
Partners need 
to submit 
documentation 
to their FPO 
Name 
Email address 
Sweden (SE) 
SRC 
Patriq Fagerstedt 
Patriq.Fagerstedt@vr.se  
 
 
 
 
 
Sweden (SE) 
Sida 
Markus Moll 
Markus.Moll@sida.se  
 
 
 
 
 
Taiwan (TW) 
MoST 
Ching-Mei Tang 
cmtom@most.gov.tw  
 
 
 
 
 
Tunisia (TN) 
MHSER 
Awatef Soltane Marzouki 
Mrs Saida Rafrafi Farhat 
M. Zied Kbaier 
awatef.soltane.dpps@gmail.com  
coopint2@gmail.com  
kbaier.zied@gmail.com  
 
 
 
 
 
Turkey (TR) 
TUBITAK 
Almila Nur Arsunar 
Nihan Akdemirci 
almila.bahar@tubitak.gov.tr  
nihan.morali@tubitak.gov.tr  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
26 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
D. 2020 JOINT TRANSNATIONAL CALL SECRETARIAT AND RELATED CONTACT 
DETAILS 
 
 
 
 
 
Contact details  
AquaticPollutants  - Call Secretariat  
Stefanie Pietsch 
Project Management Jülich 
s.pietsch@fz-juelich.de 
Sabine Sorge 
Project Management Jülich 
s.sorge@fz-juelich.de 
AquaticPollutants - Online Submission Platform 
Uwe Selig 
Project Management Jülich 
u.selig@fz-juelich.de 
Christian Stolle 
Project Management Jülich 
c.stolle@fz-juelich.de 
Submission Platform 
https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de 
ptj-aquapollut.call@fz-juelich.de 
AquaticPollutants - Open Data Contact Point 
Larissa Vargas 
Agence Nationale de la Recherche 
waterjpicommunication@agencerecherche.fr  
JPI Websites 
Water JPI 
http://www.waterjpi.eu/  
JPI Oceans 
http://www.jpi-oceans.eu/  
JPI AMR 
https://www.jpiamr.eu/  
  
 
AquaticPollutants 
Call Announcement 
27 
 
 
Joint Transnational Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in 
water resources 
E. PILOT INITIATIVE - SCIENTIFIC NETWORKING AND TRANSFER PROJECTS (TP) 
To strengthen the dissemination of results and to transfer results to policy, economy and society, a call for 
proposals for Scientific Networking and Transfer Projects will be published by AquaticPollutants. The TP will 
support the scientific projects of the 2020 Joint Transnational Call.  
The transfer project will work on: 
Theme1: Research and development of innovative strategies and methods for knowledge transfer, scientific 
networking, and increased public engagement 
Theme 2: Implementation and valorisation of new methods for transfer, communication, and dissemination 
 
The additionally funded TP will be designed to network the scientific projects of AquaticPollutants across topics 
and to connect them to other funded projects or activities by Water JPI, JPIAMR, JPI Oceans or national research 
programmes, if relevant. The TP project shall focus on development of scientific communication, the uptake of 
research results by potential end-users and policy makers, and to increase the impact of the results. Thereby the 
TP is envisaged to examine the transferability of research results into practice, instruments and solutions, to 
develop synergies between the projects and to support policy uptake. The TP should contribute to increase the 
dissemination and transfer activities of the AquaticPollutants projects as a whole. Applications to TP project is 
encouraged to foster the dissemination and impact of the scientific projects. 
For all funded transnational projects of AquaticPollutants 2020 Joint Transnational Call it will be fruitful to 
collaborate with the TP project. Applicants should consider this when preparing proposals and budgets (e.g. 
travel costs for coordinators 1 meeting/year). 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
1 
DIRETRIZES FAPDF 
Aquatic Pollutants-Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and 
pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
I. APRESENTAÇÃO 
A Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa-FAPDF, por meio da parceria com o Conselho Nacional das 
Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa-CONFAP vem participar da Chamada Aquatic 
Pollutants 2020 a qual conta com a participação de 32 organizações de financiamento de 26 
países que juntas somam mais de 24 milhões de euros. Tal montante de recursos visa apoiar 
projetos de pesquisa e inovação que estabeleçam abordagens integradas e intersetoriais para 
o gerenciamento de riscos, combinando as áreas de pesquisa de contaminantes de interesse 
emergentes, patógenos e resistência antimicrobiana. Será considerado todo o ciclo de água, 
desde a nascente até as bacias hidrográficas e eventualmente os oceanos. 
 
Considerando que tais recursos acima referidos não atingem os pesquisadores brasileiros, esta 
Fundação apoiará, até o limite abaixo estipulado (Item II), as propostas dos pesquisadores do 
Distrito Federal que estiverem compondo os consórcios (propostas) contemplados na 
Chamada em pauta. 
 
II. RECURSOS  
A FAPDF fará um aporte de € 200.000 (duzentos mil Euros) para apoiar até três propostas de 
pesquisadores do Distrito Federal, com o valor máximo de € 66.666,00 (sessenta mil Euros) por 
proposta. 
 
III. ELEGIBILIDADE 
a. Quanto à Instituição  
Poderão participar da chamada os pesquisadores do Distrito Federal vinculados à Instituições 
de Ensino Superior e/ou de Pesquisa, públicas ou privadas sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF. 
 
b. Quanto ao Coordenador 
O Coordenador deverá atender os requisitos abaixo apresentados.  
b.1) ter nacionalidade brasileira ou estrangeira com RNE (Registro Nacional de Estrangeiro) 
permanente, (Lei no 6.815 de 19 de agosto de 1980, que define a situação do estrangeiro no 
Brasil);  
b.2) ser residente e domiciliado no Distrito Federal ou RIDE (RIDE – Região Integrada de 
Desenvolvimento Econômico – Distrito Federal); 
b.3) ter vínculo laboral celetista ou estatutário de caráter permanente com a Instituição 
Executora;  
b.4) possuir título de doutor; 
b.6) ter cadastro atualizado no Sistema de Informação e Gestão de Projetos – SIGFAP da FAPDF 
ou outro Sistema informatizado que a FAPDF venha a utilizar, com toda a documentação 
comprobatória atualizada, solicitada neste item; e 
b.8) não ser aposentado e não estar licenciado. 
 
c. Quanto à proposta  
c.1) É de exclusiva responsabilidade de cada proponente adotar todas as providências que 
envolvam permissões e autorizações especiais de caráter ético ou legal, necessárias à 
execução do projeto, como por exemplo: concordância do Comitê de Ética no caso de 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
2 
experimentos envolvendo seres humanos; EIA/RIMA na área ambiental; autorização da 
CTNBio/MCT em relação OGMs, genoma, entre outros. 
 c.2) Os documentos comprobatórios das permissões e autorizações especiais necessários à 
execução do projeto, deverão obrigatoriamente ser apresentados à FAPDF, quando solicitados.  
 
 
 
IV. ITENS FINANCIÁVEIS 
Serão financiados recursos de capital e custeio. 
a) Capital (limitado a 30% do valor total solicitado) 
- Equipamentos; e  
- Material Bibliográfico  
Os itens de capital adquiridos serão alocados na Instituição Executora do projeto sob a 
responsabilidade, manutenção e guarda do Coordenador. Após o encerramento do projeto e 
aprovação da prestação de contas, os itens de capital deverão ser devolvidos à FAPDF que 
decidirá sobre a devida destinação.  
 
b) Custeio  
Poderão ser solicitados os seguintes itens: 
b.1) Bolsas (modalidades: Apoio Técnico, Iniciação Científica, Mestrado, Doutorado e PósDoc 
que deverão seguir os requisitos e valores do CNPq); 
b.2) Material de consumo, componentes e/ou peças de reposição de equipamentos, software, 
combustível (apenas quando destinado ao desenvolvimento do projeto, ou seja, pesquisa de 
campo), passagens (aéreas e terrestres) e diárias (conforme Instrução nº 02, de 06 de janeiro 
de 2016) somente para a Equipe Técnica e exclusivamente para o desenvolvimento do projeto;  
b.3) Pagamento integral ou parcial de contratos de manutenção e serviços de terceiros, pessoa 
física ou jurídica, de caráter eventual, essencial ao desenvolvimento do projeto;  
b.4) A mão-de-obra empregada na execução do projeto não terá vínculo de qualquer natureza 
com a FAPDF e desta não poderá demandar quaisquer pagamentos, permanecendo na 
exclusiva responsabilidade do Coordenador/Instituição de execução do projeto. 
 
V. ITENS NÃO FINANCIÁVEIS 
a) Despesas a título de taxa de administração, gerência ou similar;  
b) Taxas bancárias, multas, juros ou qualquer encargo decorrente de pagamento fora do prazo; 
c) Despesas com publicidade que caracterize promoção pessoal de autoridades ou servidores 
públicos, salvo as de caráter educativo, informativo ou de orientação social;  
d) Remuneração de pesquisador, envolvido no projeto e pagamento de salários ou 
complementação salarial de pessoal técnico e administrativo ou quaisquer outras vantagens 
para pessoal de órgão ou de instituições públicas (Federal, Estadual, Distrital e Municipal);  
e) Aquisição e aluguel de imóvel;  
f) Aquisição de mobiliário; 
g) Aquisição de veículos automotores, peças e acessórios;  
h) Pagamentos, a qualquer título, a servidor da administração pública ou empregado de 
empresa pública ou de sociedade de economia mista, por serviços de consultoria ou 
assistência técnica;  
i) Despesas de obras civis, energia elétrica, água, telefone e correio de responsabilidade da 
Instituição Executora; 
 j) Passagens e diárias para participação e promoção de eventos técnico-científicos, 
congressos, simpósios, workshops, visitas técnicas e cursos, por serem objetos de 
financiamento de Edital específico (Edital 03/2020, Patrocínio);  
k) Seguro viagem; e 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
3 
l) Despesas com publicações. 
 
VI. SUBMISSÃO DA PROPOSTA À FAPDF 
Após a publicação do resultado final da Chamada, o pesquisador principal do DF, participante 
do consórcio contemplado, deverá submeter via SIGFAP ou outro Sistema informatizado que a 
FAPDF venha a utilizar: 
a. a proposta a ser apoiada pela FAPDF, em língua portuguesa; 
b. a proposta completa (full proposal) contemplada;  
c. a publicação do resultado final da Chamada; e 
d. currículo Lattes atualizado do pesquisador principal do DF (máximo de três meses). 
 
Casos omissos serão resolvidos pelo Conselho Diretor da FAPDF. 
A íntegra da Chamada pode ser observada no endereço eletrônico www.fap.df.gov.br  
 
ALESSANDRO FRANÇA DANTAS 
Diretor Presidente 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
National / regional regulations 
Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants 
and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Joint Call 2020 
Publication Date: 17 February 2020 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 0 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Table of Content 
 
BELGIUM .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 
BRAZIL ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 6 
CYPRUS ...................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 
CZECH REPUBLIC .................................................................................................................................................................................. 9 
DENMARK ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 
ESTONIA .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 14 
FINLAND ................................................................................................................................................................................................. 15 
FRANCE ................................................................................................................................................................................................... 17 
GERMANY ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 19 
GREECE .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 21 
IRELAND .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 23 
ISRAEL ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... 25 
ITALY ......................................................................................................................................................................................................... 26 
LATVIA ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 31 
MOLDOVA .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 33 
NORWAY ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 34 
POLAND .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 35 
PORTUGAL ............................................................................................................................................................................................. 38 
ROMANIA ................................................................................................................................................................................................ 39 
SCOTLAND ............................................................................................................................................................................................ 41 
SOUTH AFRICA ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 42 
SPAIN ........................................................................................................................................................................................................ 44 
SWEDEN .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 49 
TAIWAN .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 55 
TUNESIA .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 56 
TURKEY .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 58 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
BELGIUM 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Koen Lefever 
koen.lefever@belspo.be  
Eligible Institutions 
The eligible partners are the Belgian university institutions, university colleges, public 
scientific institutions and non-profit research centres belonging to the list below:  
 
http://www.belspo.be/belspo/fisc/wi_list_nl.stm (Dutch)  
 
http://www.belspo.be/belspo/fisc/wi_list_fr.stm ( French) 
The private sector and international research organisations based in Belgium are not 
eligible. 
Eligible Applicants 
 
Eligible Costs 
Eligible personnel costs (permanent/temporary) 
Pre-tax wages associated with increases in the cost of living, employers’ social security 
and statutory insurance contributions, as well as any other compensation or allowance 
due by law and secondary to the salary itself and tax-free scholarships. Tax-free 
scholarships refer to a grant subject to a tax exemption under the tax laws.  
 
The staff costs are limited to a maximum amount of: 
• 
66.000 €/year for a scientist with a Master's degree (regardless of years of 
experience) 
• 
90.000 €/year for a scientist with a PhD (regardless of years of experience) 
• 
50.000 €/year for a technician (regardless of years of experience) 
 
Those amounts are not applicable to persons that are identified by name in the proposal. 
 
Operating cost (Travel and consumables) 
General operating costs (flat rate): this includes all current expenditures related to the 
project’s implementation such as usual supplies and products for the laboratory, 
workshop and office, documentation, travel and accommodation, use of IT facilities, 
software, organisation of meetings, workshops and events, etc. The total amount of these 
operational costs is set at a flat rate of 10% of the personnel budget or 15% of the 
personnel budget if the Belgian partner is the coordinator of the project. 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Specific operating costs (invoices will be required): this includes specific operating costs 
not covered by the general operating costs such as costs for analysis, maintenance and 
repair of specific equipment purchased by the project, surveys. 
 
Equipement 
Purchase and installation of scientific and technical apparatus and instruments, including 
computer hardware. Equipment needs to be purchased in the first half of the project. 
 
Overheads  
Institutions’ general overheads that cover, in one lump sum, administration, telephone, 
postal, maintenance, heating, lighting, electricity, rent, machine depreciation, and 
insurance costs. The total amount of this item may not exceed 5% of the total personnel 
and operating costs. 
 
Subcontracting 
Expenses incurred by a third party to carry out tasks or provide services that require 
special scientific or technical competences outside the institution’s normal area of activity. 
The amount may not exceed 25% of the total budget allocated to the Belgian partner 
concerned. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
500 000 EURO 
250 000 EURO 
Other Funding Criteria 
The maximum amount that a Belgian partner can request is 250 000 EURO. In case 
there is more than one Belgian partner in a consortium than this amount should be 
shared among the Belgian partners. 
Relevant documents 
 
Additional Info 
 
Useful Links 
www.belspo.be  
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 3 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
BELGIUM 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique 
(FNRS) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Joël Groeneveld 
joel.groeneveld@frs-fnrs.be  
Eligible Institutions 
 
Eligible Applicants 
All eligibility rules and criteria can be found in the PINT-MULTI regulations. This call is 
co-funded by the European Commission (see article III.3). 
Eligible Costs 
 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 200,000 
€ 200,000 
Other Funding Criteria 
“Overhead” is not an eligible cost. If the project is selected for funding, these costs will 
be subject to a separate agreement between the institution of the beneficiary and the 
F.R.S.-FNRS. 
Relevant documents 
PINT-MULTI regulations 
Additional Info 
Applicants must provide basic administrative data by submitting an administrative 
application on e-space for the same deadline as the consortium application is submitted. 
Please select the “PINT-MULTI” funding instrument when creating the administrative 
application. Proposals invited to the second stage will be able to complete the pre-
proposal form and provide information for the full proposal upon validation by the F.R.S.-
FNRS. 
Useful Links 
http://www.ncp.fnrs.be/index.php/appels/era-nets 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
BELGIUM 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
The Research Foundation – Flanders 
(FWO) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Toon Monbaliu 
eranet@fwo.be 
+32 2 550 15 70 
Eligible Institutions 
See ‘Eligible applicants’ section. 
Eligible Applicants 
The FWO participates with its (junior/senior) ‘research projects’ funding channel, which 
implies that these specific regulations apply: 
See articles 10-12 (in essence this comes down to holding an eligible ‘ZAP-position’ at a 
Flemish, eligible main host institution.) 
Eligible Costs 
FWO (sub)projects are capped at max. 350.000 EUR per project/consortium (incl. 6% 
overhead). In total, the FWO foresees a budget of 700.000 EUR, which allows funding 2-
3 projects. For the overhead calculation the following method has to be respected: a 6% 
structural overhead should be calculated on the direct costs. E.g.: the sum of all costs 
(personnel, consumables, travel, etc.) amount to 300.000 EUR, then the overhead will 
amount to 18.000 EUR (6% of 300.000 EUR) and the total requested cost 318.000 EUR. 
This total requested cost may never exceed 350.000 EUR. 
Admitted costs 
Only temporary personnel can be remunerated. 
For the cost categories see chapters 7 and 8 of the regulations. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
700.000 EUR 
350.000 EUR (incl. 6% structural 
overhead) 
Other Funding Criteria 
One and the same researcher can participate in 2 different research projects/consortia 
at maximum when applying for FWO funding, within the same call.  
Researchers are asked to inform their central coordination unit, at their host institution, 
about their participation. 
Projects may last up to 36 months, which implies the funding has to be budgeted and 
spent accordingly. Extensions are not allowed. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 5 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Relevant documents 
Make sure that all consortium partners go thoroughly through the call documents 
and national regulations. 
Additional Info 
It is advised to contact the FWO before submission (see contact point 
above), in order to avoid ineligible projects and consortia. 
ERA-NET participation does not interfere with the ‘regular’ project submission 
framework, and is consequently not taken into account for calculating the max. available 
number of new applications and running projects combined. 
Useful Links 
Call page for European programmes (ERA-NET)  
https://www.fwo.be/en/fellowships-funding/european-programmes/era-net/ 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 6 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
BRAZIL 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Conselho Nacional das Fundações Estaduais de 
Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Elisa Natola 
elisa.confap@gmail.com 
Eligible Institutions 
Public or private (non-profit) Higher Education and Research Institutions, Scientific 
Institutions, Technology and Innovation Institutions, based in Brazilian States corresponding 
to the Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs) which participate in the call. 
Eligible Applicants 
Applicants must have a doctoral or equivalent degree, and be linked to a Research Institution 
located in Brazilian States participating in the call, through their Respective State Funding 
Agencies; have scientific or technological production evaluated by Curriculum  (Súmula 
Curricular). 
Eligible Costs 
As a general rule, Brazilian State Funding Agencies finance scholarships, mobility and 
grants, related to scientific, technological and innovation projects. 
Applicants must necessarily comply to the specific eligibility rules and financing modalities, 
which shall be defined and disseminated in the respective websites of the participating 
FAPs (Guidelines for the call). 
Applicants must verify the specific eligibility rules and financing modalities, which shall be 
defined and disseminated in the respective websites of the participating FAPs (Guidelines 
for the call). 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
 EUROS 1.953.000,00 
Total TBC after final 
confirmation from possible 
other FAPs  
Detailed for each participating FAP in item below: 
Additional Info, which indicates within the maximum 
budget, the maximum number of projects which may be 
supported. 
Applicants must verify with their respective FAPs the 
maximum amount, also in local currency. 
Other Funding Criteria 
Applicants must necessarily comply to the specific eligibility rules and financing modalities, 
which shall be defined and disseminated in the respective websites of the participating FAPs 
(Guidelines for the call). 
Relevant documents 
Specific guidelines and orientations may be published by the participating FAPs. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Additional Info 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies supporting the call and details on funding, 
maximum number of projects, contacts: 
Please note that the list of supporting FAP is yet to be finalized. 
 
 
FAP 
State 
Budget 
Euros 
Max. number of 
projects within the 
max. allocated 
budget 
FAPs contacts 
1 
FACEPE 
Pernambuco 
20.000 
1 
marcelo.cordeiro@facepe.br 
2 
FAPDF 
Federal 
District 
200.000 
3 
cootec@fap.df.gov.br 
3 
FAPEAL 
Alagoas 
50.000 
2 
antonio.carvalho@fapeal.br 
4 
FAPEAM 
Amazonas 
400.000 
4 
gabinete@fapeamam.gov.br 
5 
FAPEAP 
Amapá 
50.000 
2 
rositrindade@hotmail.com 
6 
FAPEG 
Goiás 
50.000 
1 
comunicacao.fapeg@goias.gov.br 
7 
FAPEMA 
Maranhão 
43.000 
2 
mauricio.sa@fapema.br 
8 
FAPEMIG 
Minas Gerais 
100.000 
2 
dpi@fapemig.br 
9 
FAPERGS 
Rio Grande 
do Sul 
60.000 
3 
gabinete.fapergs@gmail.com 
10 
FAPERJ 
Rio de 
Janeiro 
100.000 
5 
assessoria.internacional@faperj.br 
11 
FAPES 
Espírito 
Santo 
100.000 
2 
parcerias@fapes.es.gov.br 
12 
FAPESC 
Santa 
Catarina 
50.000 
2 
internacional@fapesc.sc.gov.br 
13 
FAPESP 
São Paulo 
600.000 
5 
chamada-JPI-2020@fapesp.br 
14 
FAPESQ 
Paraiba 
30.000 
2 
fapesq@fapesq.rpp.br 
15 
FUNCAP 
Ceará 
100.000 
2 
vivian.nobre@funcap.ce.gov.br 
 
 
Useful Links 
Links to FAPs websites – for more details on eligibility rules: 
1. 
FACEPE – http://www.facepe.br 
2. 
FAPDF – www.fap.df.gov.br 
3. 
FAPEAL – http://fapeal.br 
4. 
FAPEAM – http://www.fapeam.am.gov.br 
5. 
FAPEAP - https://fapeap.portal.ap.gov.br/ 
6. 
FAPEG – www.fapeg.go.gov.br 
7. 
FAPEMA - https://www.fapema.br 
8. 
FAPEMIG - https://fapemig.br/pt/ 
9. 
FAPERGS - https://fapergs.rs.gov.br 
10. FAPERJ – http://www.faperj.br 
11. FAPES - www.fapes.es.gov.br  
12. FAPESC - www.fapesc.sc.gov.br 
13. FAPESP - http://www.fapesp.br/ 
14. FAPESQ - www.fapesq.rpp.br 
15. FUNCAP - https://www.funcap.ce.gov.br 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
CYPRUS 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Research and Innovation Foundation 
(RIF) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Anna Maria Christoforou 
amchristoforou@research.org.cy 
+357 22 205043 
Eligible Institutions 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy Eligible for participation are 
organizations, such as research organizations, higher and tertiary education institutions, 
scientific and professional associations, enterprises, associations of enterprises, non-
governmental organizations, public services and public benefit organizations. 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
Eligible Applicants 
Legal entities established and based in the areas, which are under the effective control of 
the Republic of Cyprus. 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
Eligible Costs 
Research & Development Cost Categories (Personnel Cost, Costs for Instruments and 
Equipment, Costs for External Services, Foreign Travel Costs, Consumables, Other 
Specific Costs, Overheads). 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 400 000 
€ 200 000 (if the Coordinator of the 
transnational project is from Cyprus) 
€175 000 (if all Cypriot participants 
participate as Partners in the 
transnational project) 
Other Funding Criteria 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
RESTART 2016-2020 Programmes «Work Programme Document» 
Additional Info 
Please check National Regulations at: www.research.org.cy 
Useful Links 
RIF Website: www.research.org.cy 
IRIS Portal: https://iris.research.org.cy 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
CZECH REPUBLIC 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Technologická Agentura České Republiky 
(TAČR) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Michaela Kriklanova 
michaela.kriklanova@tacr.cz 
Eligible Institutions 
Enterprises (according to Annex 1 of the Regulation) 
Research organizations (according to Article 2 paragraph 83 of the Regulation) 
Enterprises who act as natural persons according to Annex 1 of the Regulation 
engaged in an economic activity pursuant to Act no. 455/1991 coll. on Trades (Trade 
Act). 
Eligible Applicants 
Enterprises (according to Annex 1 of the Regulation) 
Research organizations (according to Article 2 paragraph 83 of the Regulation) 
Enterprises who act as natural persons according to Annex 1 of the Regulation 
engaged in an economic activity pursuant to Act no. 455/1991 coll. on Trades (Trade 
Act). 
Eligible Costs 
Eligible costs are: 
- 
personnel costs (including scholarships) 
- 
subcontracting costs (max. 20% of total eligible costs throughout the whole 
project period) 
- 
other direct costs (write-offs, protection of intellectual property, operating 
expenses, travel costs, consumables) 
- 
indirect costs (overheads) - full cost/flat rate 25% (indirect costs in the 
respective year are calculated as 25% of the sum of the personnel costs and 
other direct costs in the same year.) 
These specific categories of eligible costs are defined under Article 17 of the General 
Terms & Conditions.   
Investment costs are NOT eligible in this joint call. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 1 mil. 
€ 0.5 mil. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Other Funding Criteria 
Eligible projects for TACR 
- 
the project meets the definition of applied research and innovation 
- 
the research results correspond to the national rules and are applicable / 
exploitable. (The project proposal has to include a clear description of the 
exploitation plan and results.) 
- 
the aim of the project has to be relevant to the overall aim of the EPSILON 
programme  
- 
the industrial research and experimental development share corresponds to 
the activities of the Czech partner described in the project proposal 
- 
the applicants are eligible (based on the rules stated above) 
- 
the costs are eligible (based on the rules stated above) 
- 
the requested funding meets the national regulations for aid intensity 
- 
the applicants have published the financial statements for the years 2016, 
2017, 2018  
Funding rates 
The aid intensity for each Czech applicant in the project is determined based on the 
type of entity according to the Regulation (see the table below) and at the same time 
must not exceed the maximum permissible aid intensity for the Czech part of the 
project, which is 85 % of the total eligible costs. 
 
Applicant 
Industrial 
research 
Industrial 
research with  
a bonus for 
effective 
collaboration 
Experimental 
development 
Experimental 
development 
with a bonus 
for effective 
collaboration 
Small 
enterprises* 
70 % 
80 %*** 
45 % 
60 % 
Medium-sized 
enterprises* 
60 % 
75 %*** 
35 % 
50 % 
Large 
enterprises 
50 % 
65 % 
25 % 
40 % 
Research 
Organisations
** 
100 %*** 
100 %*** 
100 %*** 
100 %*** 
* Note: An SME is defined in Annex 1 of the Regulation 
** Research organisations must satisfy the definition in the Act and the Framework.  
*** While respecting the maximum permissible aid intensity of 85 % per project.  
Supported results  
Projects that achieve at least one of the following types of results can be supported in 
this Call. The type of the result has to be clearly described in the project proposal: 
P - patent 
G - technically realized results - prototype, functional sample 
Z - pilot plant, proven technology 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 11 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
R - software 
F - results with legal protection - utility model, industrial design 
N - Certified methodologies and practices, treatment, conservation methods, 
procedures and specialized maps with professional expert content 
O - Miscellaneous 
Results not to be recognized by the programme manager as a single result of a given 
project, but only in combination with at least one other result listed in the list of 
result types above:  
 
H - results reflected in non-legislative directives and regulations binding within the 
competence of the respective provider and results reflected in the approved strategic 
and conceptual documents of the state or public administration. 
Mandatory forms to be submitted 
- 
A Sworn Statement of the Applicant 
- 
Completed “TACR Application Form” Excel file 
- 
if the applicant plans to achieve the “NmetS” type of result, the 
"Confirmation of the Certification authority for NmetS results" needs to be 
attached 
- 
if the applicant plans to achieve the “Patent” type of result, patent search 
must be substantiated 
All documents proving the eligibility of the Czech applicant (mentioned above) shall be 
submitted via the TACR data box (TACR data box ID: afth9xp) within the same 
deadline as the project pre-proposals. 
Please fill in the subject line as: „Horizon2020 - AquaticPollutants Call 2020 - prokázání 
způsobilosti - akronym projektu“. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations  
EPSILON Programme (only in Czech) 
definitions of supported outcomes (only in Czech) 
Additional Info 
Intellectual Property Rights 
The applicants are required to enter into a contract with their foreign partners (sign a 
so-called Consortium Agreement) which will define the conditions of cooperation on 
the project where, among other things, they specify the method of allocating rights to 
the research results, as well as adjustment and management of the rights imported or 
created during the project's implementation, which are necessary to address the 
project. 
Useful Links 
TACR website (only in Czech) 
Funding rules for the Czech applicant (available on the TACR website)  
 Guide for the Czech applicants (available on the TACR website) 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
DENMARK 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Innovation Fund Denmark (IFD) 
 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Martin Kyvsgaard,  
International Coordinator 
martin.kyvsgaard@innofond.dk 
+45 61905081 
Eligible Institutions 
Innovation Fund Denmark can invest in all Danish organisation. Please find funding rates 
below and in our read more in our General Terms and Conditions for International 
Projects. 
Innovation Fund Denmark's (IFD) purpose is to advance research, development, testing 
and validation of innovative solutions for the benefit of growth and knowledge in 
Denmark, as well as to solve societal challenges. IFD encourage all types of partners to 
participate in international projects. 
Eligible Applicants 
SME’s, Large Enterprises, GTS, Universities & University Colleges, Public Hospitals, Other 
public institutions 
Eligible Costs 
Eligible cost-categories are: Salary, Travel, Subcontracting, Materials, Communication 
and knowledge sharing and ‘Other expenses’. 
 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€1.000.000 
€500.000 per project, €300.000 per partner 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 13 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Other Funding Criteria 
Danish applicants must, no later than two weeks after the deadline for submission, 
register individually in the national e-grant system. Please find a guide here. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations: 
https://innovationsfonden.dk/sites/default/files/2018-10/general-terms-and-
conditions-for-international-projects-approved-after-1-feb-2018.pdf   
Additional Info 
IFD’s funds are paid based on actual expenses and can be reimbursed on a quarterly 
basis to SME’s and a semi-annual basis for other participants.The progress report must 
be submitted every six months. 
The auditor's statement must be submitted annually (unless organization is state-audited). 
Useful Links 
Innovation Fund Denmark: 
https://innovationsfonden.dk/en/programmes/international-collaborations 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
ESTONIA 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Eesti Teadusagentuur (ETAg) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Margit Suuroja 
Margit.Suuroja@etag.ee 
Eligible Institutions 
See National Requirements 
Eligible Applicants 
See National Requirements 
Eligible Costs 
See National Requirements 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
100.000 € 
100.000 € 
Other Funding Criteria 
 
Relevant documents 
National Requirements 
Additional Info 
If in one project participates several Estonian partners the total requested 
Estonian budget is 100.000€. 
Useful Links 
ERA-NET ühiskonkurssidega seotud toetused 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
FINLAND 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Academy of Finland (AKA) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Vesa Yli-Pelkonen 
vesa.yli-pelkonen@aka.fi 
Eligible Institutions 
Please check AKA’s Regulations at: 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/10rahoitus/liiteet/rahoitusehdot_2019-2020_en.pdf 
http://www.aka.fi/en/funding/apply-for-funding/az-index-of-application-guidelines/ 
Eligible Applicants 
In this call the eligibility criteria is according to the Academy Project funding criteria. 
• In addition to their doctorate, the applicant must have other significant scientific 
merits. Usually they are a professor or docent level researcher. 
• If the applicant does not have an employment relationship with, for example, a 
university or research institute, they must give an account of how their own 
salary will be covered during the funding period. 
• Only one application per researcher will be considered (incl. a consortium 
subproject) in this call 
Please check AKA’s Regulations at: 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/10rahoitus/liiteet/rahoitusehdot_2019-2020_en.pdf 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/20arviointi-ja-paatokset/liitteet/2019/poytakirjan-1-liite-
1-trp-hallituksen-paatos-11.4.2019.pdf (in Finnish) 
http://www.aka.fi/en/funding/apply-for-funding/az-index-of-application-guidelines/ 
Eligible Costs 
The call is implemented under the full cost model. Academy funding can be used to 
cover both direct project costs (e.g. direct salaries) and indirect costs (e.g. costs for 
premises). Both types of costs are covered with the same percentage. Please check 
AKA’s regulations at: 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/10rahoitus/liiteet/rahoitusehdot_2019-2020_en.pdf 
http://www.aka.fi/en/funding/apply-for-funding/az-index-of-application-guidelines/ 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€850,000,00 
€250,000 per consortium partner  
€350,000 per consortium coordinator 
If there are several Finnish partners in the same 
consortium, the maximum total commitment from 
AKA is €400,000 per consortium. 
Other Funding Criteria 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 16 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations: 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/10rahoitus/liiteet/rahoitusehdot_2019-2020_en.pdf 
http://www.aka.fi/globalassets/20arviointi-ja-paatokset/liitteet/2019/poytakirjan-1-liite-
1-trp-hallituksen-paatos-11.4.2019.pdf (in Finnish) 
http://www.aka.fi/en/funding/apply-for-funding/az-index-of-application-guidelines/ 
Additional Info 
Only the submission of the joint proposal is required. There is no need to submit any 
documents directly to AKA. However, applicants are requested to contact AKA’s 
contact point (see above) before submitting the proposal. 
Useful Links 
 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 17 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
FRANCE 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Agence National de la Recherche (ANR) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Simon Coulet 
Armelle Montrose 
anrteam-
aquaticpollutants@agencerecherche.fr 
+33 1 78 09 81 20 
Eligible Institutions 
ANR may finance Partners that have their primary establishment in France and/or 
Partners established in the EU and that can prove that they have a secondary 
establishment in France. To be eligible, the consortium must include at least one 
French public research organization (EPA, EPSCP, EPST, EPIC).  
The involvement of an enterprise is encouraged but not mandatory. If a non-French 
enterprise is involved in a project, it is mandatory to involve a French enterprise; 
otherwise the French partners will be declared ineligible. 
Eligible Applicants 
See above 
Eligible Costs 
Please check the National Funding Regulation at:  
https://anr.fr/fr/rf/ 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€2,000,000 
The maximum amount which can be requested by 
each proposal with French applicant(s) is limited 
to: 
• €300,000 (if French Coordinator) 
• €250,000 (if French Participants) 
Other Funding Criteria 
The funding requested from ANR for a project must be between 15 000 € and 250 
000 €. If there are several partners requesting funding from ANR, the 250 000 € 
have to be shared. If a partner requesting funding from ANR is coordinator of a 
proposal, the maximum amount of funding requested can reach 300 000 €. 
 
Please check the National Funding Regulation at:  
https://anr.fr/fr/rf/ 
Relevant documents 
National Funding Regulations 
https://anr.fr/fr/rf/ 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 18 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Additional Info 
Additional eligibility criterion: 
To be eligible, the proposals must not be judged as similar with another 
proposal. 
The similarity between two Projects is established when these Projects (in their 
entirety or in part) describe identical main objectives or result from a simple 
adaptation. 
 
Project partners’ commitment:  
Access to genetic resources and traditional knowledge associated with 
genetic resources  
Pursuant to the Nagoya Protocol, ANR must obtain documentary evidence of Due 
Diligence Declarations (DDDs) for all research projects that it funds. Projects funded 
will be asked to make a declaration on potential utilisation of genetic resources during 
their projects.  
DDDs for research work can be submitted online using the special application on the 
MESRI website. Credentials to access the application can be obtained from the 
director of the host institution. For full details, go to: http://www.enseignementsup-
recherche.gouv.fr/pid37627/utilisation-ressources-genetiques-associees.html  
Open Science  
As part of the contribution of the ANR to the promotion and implementation of an 
open science, and in connexion with the National plan for an open science, the 
applicants formally undertake, if they receive funding, to: (1) post the full texts of all 
scientific publications resulting from the research project in an open archive (either 
directly in HAL or via a local institutional archive); and (2) to provide a data 
management plan (DMP) within 6 months of the project start, as per the ANR Funding 
regulation (Règlement financier) and the arrangements communicated in the act 
allocating the grant. Besides, the ANR recommends that publications be made in 
reviews or books in native open access.  
Terms and conditions and important recommendations for partners 
requesting funding from ANR will be published on ANR website. 
Useful Links 
https://anr.fr/fr/appels/ 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 19 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
GERMANY 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
German Federal Ministry of Education and 
Research (BMBF) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Stefanie Pietsch 
 
Christian Stolle 
ptj-aquapollut.call@fz-juelich.de 
+49 30 20199-3152 
+49 381 20356-275 
Eligible Institutions 
Applications may be submitted by German institutions of higher education and non-
university research institutions as well as by commercial companies, particularly small 
and medium-sized enterprises (SME) which are headquartered and exploit their results 
primarily in Germany. Also local authorities, non-profit organizations or associations 
are eligible for funding. 
Eligible Applicants 
For information regarding the EU's standard definition of SMEs, please visit 
http://ec.europa.eu/growth/smes/business-friendly-environment/sme-definition_en.   
Research institutions, which receive joint basic funding from the Federal Government 
and the Länder, can only be granted project funding supplementary to their basic 
funding for additional expenditure under certain preconditions. 
Eligible Costs 
Personnel cost, Travel cost, Sub-contracting, Equipment, Consumables, Overheads 
(Not included: Building investments) 
Richtlinien für Zuwendungsanträge auf Ausgaben/Kostenbasis(AZA/AZK) 
https://foerderportal.bund.de/easy/easy_index.php?auswahl=easy_formulare 
Projektpauschale: Universities should consider cost for the “Projektpauschale” already 
in the preparation of the proposal. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 3,000,000 
The maximum budget per German partner per 
proposal is 250,000 €. If a German partner is 
coordinator of a proposal, the maximum amount 
of funding requested can reach 450,000 €. If there 
are several German partners in the same 
consortium, the max. total commitment from 
BMBF is 600,000 € per consortium. 
Other Funding Criteria 
Only two German partners in a consortium are eligible. The prerequisite for 
two German partners in a consortium is that at least one partner can be classified as a 
stakeholder or end user (e.g. companies, SMEs, municipalities, authorities, associations, 
etc.). If there is no German stakeholder or end user in the consortium, only one 
German partner per consortium can participate - either as a coordinator or partner. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations:  Research for Sustainable Development, www.fona.de  
The funding procedure will follow the national criteria of the funding of the Federal 
Ministry of Education and Research  
http://foerderportal.bund.de/easy/easy_index.php?auswahl=easy_formulare 
Additional Info 
 Funding quota: 
• 
Universities, Research organisations, Associations and local authorities: up to 
100% 
• 
Companies: up to max. 50 % 
• 
SMEs: Up to max. 80% (incl. bonus) 
Useful Links 
https://www.fona.de/de/themen/wassermanagement.php 
https://www.ptj.de/projektfoerderung/mare-n 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 21 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
GREECE 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
General Secretariat for Research & 
Technology (GSRT) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Sofia Dimitropoulou 
s.dimitropoulou@gsrt.gr 
00302131300187 
Eligible Institutions 
GSRT potentially supports all private and public legal entities namely: private 
enterprises (such as SMEs, large-companies etc), research organizations, higher 
education institutions, and other public organizations with R&D activities). Individuals 
as well as individual enterprises are not eligible under this scheme. 
Eligible Applicants 
Applicants may submit in the current call, if they are enterprises, up to two (2) 
proposals from the same enterprise and for Public research Institutes and Universities 
up to (2) proposals at the level of the same Laboratory or School or Institute or 
Department. 
Eligible Costs 
 
(a) personnel costs: researchers, technicians and other supporting staff to the extent 
employed on the project. 
(b) costs on fixed assets i.e. b1) costs of instruments and equipment to the extent 
and for the period used for the project. Where such instruments and equipment are 
not used for their full life for the project, only the depreciation costs corresponding 
to the life of the project, as calculated on the basis of generally accepted accounting 
principles are considered as eligible and b2) costs for buildings and land, to the 
extent and for the duration period used for the project. With regard to buildings, 
only the depreciation costs corresponding to the life of the project, as calculated on 
the basis of generally accepted accounting principles are considered as eligible. For 
land, costs of commercial transfer or actually incurred capital costs are eligible. 
(c) costs of contractual research, knowledge and patents bought or licensed from 
outside sources at arm's length conditions, as well as costs of consultancy and 
equivalent services used exclusively for the project. 
(d) additional general costs and other operating expenses, including costs of 
materials, supplies, travel expenses, organization of meetings, dissemination/publicity 
costs, audit costs, incurred directly as a result of the project implementation. 
(e) indirect costs = flat rate 15% of personnel costs. Indirect costs are eligible for all 
legal entities and include costs that do not incur directly as a result of the project 
implementation (e. g. administrative and management costs, utility costs). 
 
Note: -Please bear in mind that scientific management costs are eligible under 
category (a) whereas administrative and financial/legal management costs fall under 
eligible categories (e) or (d)-audit costs only. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
- Subcontracting is allowed. This will be clarified in the guidelines of the national call. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
1Μ€ 
Upper funding limits for the eligible costs 
Upper limit of the total public funding will be 
200.000 € per project (including indirect costs). 
The maximum state aid intensity will be 
calculated according to the provisions of the 
European state aid rules and regulations in 
force (type of research activity, size of the 
participating 
enterprise, 
collaborative 
research). 
Other Funding Criteria 
Evaluation  
At national level, only eligibility check is conducted and not a full peer review at pre-
proposals and full proposals stages. We rely on the evaluation made by the COFUND 
Call Evaluation Committee and external reviewers 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
Funding Programme : “Operational Programme for Research, Entrepreneurship and 
Innovation 2014-2020, National Research and Innovation Strategy for Smart 
Specialization 2014-2020 (RIS3)” 
Applicants are informed that this annex is for general guidance only. For more detailed 
rules and regulations please refer to the national/regional call announcement and 
contact the National/Regional Contact Point. 
Submission at the national level is required at a later stage. A national call will be 
published to support the approved, at the transnational level, proposals only. Detailed 
information on the procedure and the funding rules will be provided at the GSRT 
website in the guidelines of the national call, during the submission period.  
 
The duration of a funded project is 24 months without any prolongation 
 
Useful Links 
https://www.espa.gr/el/Pages/ProclamationsFS.aspx?item=4383 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 23 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
IRELAND 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Lisa Sheils 
l.sheils@epa.ie 
Eligible Institutions 
EPA funding rules apply – All types of organisations are eligible – Please consult: 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Applicants 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Grantees 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Terms and Conditions 
Eligible Applicants 
EPA funding rules apply – Applicants from the Republic of Ireland are eligible. – 
Please consult: 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Applicants 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Grantees 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Terms and Conditions 
Eligible Costs 
EPA funding rules apply – Please consult: 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Applicants 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Grantees 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Terms and Conditions 
Post-completion dissemination costs do not apply to Transnational Calls 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 500,000 
The following will be used as national 
eligibility criteria: 
Maximum Budget Requested for Coordinator:  
€ 300,000  
Maximum Budget Requested for Partners:  
€ 150,000  
Maximum of 1 Irish research organisation (e.g. 
coordinator or partner) requesting budget from 
the EPA within a consortium 
Other Funding Criteria 
As detailed in “Maximum Amount Per Proposal” 
Relevant documents 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Applicants 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Guide for Grantees 
EPA Research 2019 Call - Terms and Conditions 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 24 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Additional Info 
Irish applicants are not required to send any documentation to the EPA in 
advance of the pre-proposal & proposal submission. 
The EPA will not respond to queries relating to the scope of the proposed 
research. 
Useful Links 
www.epa.ie 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 25 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
ISRAEL 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Ministry of Health – 
Chief Scientist Office (CSO-MOH) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Dr. Irit Allon 
Mrs. Orly Spivak 
irit.allon@moh.gov.il 
orlee.f@gmail.com 
Eligible Institutions 
University, research center or hospital 
Eligible Applicants 
Position in a university, research center or hospital. Research authority must approve 
position prior to submission. PI should hold a Ph.D., M.D., D.M.D., D. Sc or equivalent 
degree and employed by an eligible institution. Research will not be funded 
simultaneously by CSO-MOH on more than one grant (Era-NET or national).  
Researchers can not apply for more than one grant from any ERA-NET funded by 
CSO-MOH or submit more than one proposal for any programme. 
Eligible Costs 
Materials and consumables; Travel & hosting (up to 10%); No salaries for applicants; 
No heavy equipment, Institutional overhead 10%. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
Up to € 300,000, depending on 
budget availability 
The following will be used as national 
eligibility criteria: 
Up to 140,000 € per partner 
Additional 20,000 € for coordination  
Maximum of 2 projects will be funded, up to 1 
Israeli coordinator 
Other Funding Criteria 
Submission of financial and scientific reports at national level is required annually. 
Relevant documents 
Not applicable 
Additional Info 
Prior to submission, researchers will submit to CSO-MOH an abstract approved by 
their research authority including budget distribution. No submission of abstract can 
result in declaration of the consortium as ineligible. If the application involves human 
or animal experiments, bioethics approvals must be submitted with the application or 
up to 4 months later. 
Useful Links 
Please see detailed instructions of application at the national level and reporting at 
http://www.health.gov.il/research-fund 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 26 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
ITALY 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Agenzia Regionale per la Protezione 
dell’Ambiente Regione Siciliana (A.R.P.A. 
Sicilia) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Vincenzo Infantino 
vinfantino@arpa.sicilia.it 
Eligible Institutions 
All institutions are eligible, providing that they have stable organization in Italy 
Eligible Applicants 
The following entities are eligible, providing that they have stable organization in Italy: 
enterprises, universities, research institutions, research organizations in accordance 
with EU Reg. n. 651/2014 of the European Commission - June 17, 2014.  
Any participant, in order to be eligible, must comply with the eligibility criteria listed 
in the “ARPA Sicilia Funding Guidelines”:  https://www.arpa.sicilia.it 
A maximum of two Italian participants per project proposal requesting funding to 
ARPA Sicilia are admitted.  
Italian applicants can participate as coordinator in only one project proposal requesting 
funding to ARPA Sicilia.   
Eligible Costs 
Eligible costs are in accordance with EU Reg. n. 651/2014 of the European 
Commission - June 17, 2014. 
Funding will be provided for the following categories: Personnel, Equipment 
(depreciation costs if not used for their full life for the project), Subcontracting, 
Other Costs and Overheads. Overheads (“Spese generali”) shall be calculated as a 
maximum of10% of admissible costs. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 100,000 
Maximum Budget Requested for all Italian partners 
(coordinator and/or partner): € 100,000  
Other Funding Criteria 
Aid intensity 
Public institutions and research entities (public and private) will be financed at a rate 
of 100% of admissible costs.  
Funding levels are based on Art. 25 of EU Reg. n. 651/2014 of the European 
Commission and are determined in the following way for private entities : 
The aid intensity for each beneficiary shall not exceed :  
(a) 100 % of the eligible costs for fundamental research;  
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 27 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
(b) 50 % of the eligible costs for industrial research;  
(c) 25 % of the eligible costs for experimental development;  
The aid intensities for industrial research and experimental development may be 
increased up to a maximum aid intensity of 80 % of the eligible costs as follows: 
(a) by 10 percentage points for medium-sized enterprises and by 20 percentage 
points for small enterprises;  
(b) by 15 percentage points if one of the following conditions is fulfilled:  
(i) the project involves effective collaboration:  
— between undertakings among which at least one is an SME, or is carried 
out in at least two Member States, or in a Member State and in a 
Contracting Party of the EEA Agreement, and no single undertaking bears 
more than 70 % of the eligible costs, or  
— between an undertaking and one or more research and knowledge-
dissemination organisations, where the latter bear at least 10 % of the 
eligible costs and have the right to publish their own research results;  
(ii) the results of the project are widely disseminated through conferences, 
publication, open access repositories, or free or open source software. 
On request of applicants a pre-payment may be done, equal to:  
50% of the total contribution for public entities and research entities;   
50% of the total contribution for private entities with necessary financial 
guarantee.  
The remaining part of the contribution will be paid in instalments after each financial 
and progress reporting period. 
Funded participants will be requested to submit financial and scientific reports to 
Arpa Sicilia. 
Relevant documents 
“Avviso 
integrativo 
nazionale”, 
published 
on 
the 
ARPA 
Sicilia 
website 
https://www.arpa.sicilia.it/ 
EU Reg. n. 651/2014 of the European Commission - June 17, 2014 
Additional Info 
Italian applicants are required to send specific documentation to ARPA Sicilia at 
proposal submission stage (please see “Avviso integrativo nazionale” for requirements 
and submission mode). 
ARPA Sicilia will not respond to queries relating to the scope of the proposed research 
Useful Links 
The complete list of criteria and provisions, which must be satisfied by all Italian 
participants, can be found in the “Avviso integrativo nazionale”, published on the 
dedicated web page on ARPA Sicilia website https://www.arpa.sicilia.it/ 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 28 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
ITALY 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Ministero dell’Università e della Ricerca 
(MUR) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Aldo Covello 
 
Valeria Cardia 
aldo.covello@miur.it  
 +39 06 5849 6465 
valeria.cardia@miur.it  
 +39 06 5849 7333 
Eligible Institutions 
According to art. 60 of the Decree-Law n. 83/2012 and art. 5 of its implementing Ministerial 
decree 593/2016, the following entities are eligible, providing that they have stable 
organization in Italy:  
- Enterprises, universities, research institutions, research organizations in accordance with 
EU Reg. n. 651/2014 of the European Commission - June 17, 2014. Eligible participants 
must have a stable organization in Italy;  
- Local and regional administrations and their investee companies (a more detailed 
description will be given in the Avviso integrativo nazionale) 
Eligible Applicants 
The participant must not be defaulting with regard to other funding received by the 
Ministry. 
The participant must not have requested/got any other funding for the same research 
activities. 
The participant must respect the Italian law "D.Lgs. n 159 del 6/09/2011 e successive 
modificazioni ed integrazioni". 
The participant must not be subject to bankruptcy proceedings as of art. 5, comma 4, letter 
b) of DM 593/2016 or must not be a company in difficulty according to the definition under 
number 18) of article 2 "Definitions" of Regulation (EU) no. 651/2014. 
The participant must be in compliance with the obligations laid down in the contributory 
and social security regulations (DURC). 
The judicial and pending records of the legal representative of the participant are negative. 
For any participant, with the exception of public universities and public research 
institutions (Enti pubblici di ricerca), the following financial criteria, calculated using the 
data reported in the last approved balance sheet, must be fulfilled: 
 
CN > (CP – I)/2 
Where: 
• CN = net assets (Capitale netto) 
• CP = sum of the costs of all the projects for which public funding has been requested 
by the participant during the year 
• I = sum of the contributions received, approved or requested for the same projects 
OF/F < 8% 
Where: 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 29 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
• OF = financial charges (Oneri finanziari) 
• F = turnover (Fatturato) 
Eligible Costs 
All activities classifiable as Basic research, Industrial research and Experimental 
development are eligible for funding. Furthermore, Basic research and Industrial research 
activities must be predominant with respect to Experimental development activities (in 
terms of costs). 
All costs incurred during the lifetime of the project under the following categories are 
eligible: Personnel, Equipment, Consulting and equivalent services, Consumables and 
Overheads.  
Overheads (spese generali) shall be calculated as a percentage of the personnel costs and 
cannot be higher than 50% of them. Travel expenses, dissemination and coordination costs 
are to be included in the overheads. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 500.000,00 
€ 150.000,00 
Other Funding Criteria 
The amount of funding which can be granted to each beneficiary is calculated multiplying 
the eligible costs for the funding rate listed in the following table. 
 
On request of applicants a pre-payment may be done, equal to: 
 
80% of the total contribution for public entities; 
 
50% of the total contribution for private entities. 
The remaining part of contribute will be paid in instalments after each financial and 
progress reporting period. 
Relevant documents 
- Decreto legge n. 83/2012; 
- Decreto Ministeriale n. 593 del 26 luglio 2016; 
- Linee guida al DM del 26 luglio 2016 n. 593 
Additional Info 
In addition to the project proposal, which shall be submitted at European level, the Italian 
participants are requested to submit further documentation to MUR, through the national 
web platform, available at the following link: banditransnazionali-miur.cineca.it 
These national additional documents must be submitted by the same deadline established 
for the pre-proposal phase submission as defined in the international joint call. 
Any participant who does not submit its national documents by the deadline of the pre-
proposal phase, will be considered not eligible for funding. 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 30 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
MUR will require to all Italian participants admitted for funding some additional documents 
describing more in detail the participant and its research activities within the project. 
It is strongly recommended to contact the National Contact Persons already in early stage 
of project preparation.  
The admission for funding is subject to the adoption of the necessary accounting and 
administrative measures for the allocation of the resources. 
Funded participants will be requested to submit financial and scientific reports to MUR. 
Useful Links 
http://www.ricercainternazionale.miur.it/era/eranet-cofund-(h2020)/aquatic-
pollutants.aspx 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 31 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
LATVIA 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Ministry of Education and Science (IZM) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Kaspars Karolis 
Kaspars.karolis@izm.gov.lv 
+37167047996 
Eligible Institutions 
R&D institutions (research institutes, universities, higher education establishments, 
research centres etc.) that are listed in the Registry of Research Institutions 
operated by the Ministry of Education and Science of the Republic of Latvia. Entity 
must apply to Research Organization definitions according to regulation 651/2014. 
Any other type of participants can participate on their own costs and are not 
covered by the Ministry. 
Eligible Applicants 
 
 
Eligible Costs 
Personnel costs (researchers, technicians and other supporting staff to the extent 
employed on the research project) and relevant personnel taxes. Other direct 
costs such as consumables, equipment (only depreciation costs), materials, 
reagents.  
Travels and allowances according to travel plan. 
Indirect costs can reach a maximum of 25% of the total direct costs. The activities 
must correspond to “research” according to Latvian Law on Scientific Activity. Only 
non-commercial activities can be comprised in projects with Latvian participation. 
Subcontracting: Expenses incurred by a third party to carry out tasks or provide 
services that require special scientific or technical competences outside the 
institution’s normal area of activity. The amount may not exceed 20% of the total 
direct costs allocated to the Latvian partner. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
300 000  € 
The maximum amount that a Latvian partner can 
request is 70 000 € per year or Coordinator 
100 000 per year. In case of two Latvian 
partners in a consortium, the maximum total 
funding available for a project is 100 000 €/year. 
Other Funding Criteria 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 32 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
Attention! Latvian partners have to end all activities until the 1.11.2023, and submit 
a report in 1 month thereafter! 
Useful Links 
 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 33 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
MOLDOVA (Republic of) 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
National Agency for Research and 
Development (NARD) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Viorica Boaghi 
Olga Davidenco 
Viorica.boaghi@gmail.com 
Olga.davidenco@ancd.gov.md 
Eligible Institutions 
Scientific and research organizations 
Eligible Applicants 
Scientific and research organizations 
Eligible Costs 
 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
100 000 € 
25 000 € 
Other Funding Criteria 
National Strategic Priorities 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
1. Code on science and innovation of the Republic of Moldova, Law no. 259-XV of 15.07.2004 
2. Law no.190 of 21.09.2017 for amending and completing some legislative acts 
3. Government Decision no.381 / 2019 on the approval of the National Program in the fields of 
research and innovation for the years 2020-2023 and of the Action Plan on its implementation 
4. Government Decision no.382 / 2019 on the approval of the Methodology for financing projects in 
the fields of research and innovation 
5. Government Decision no.196 of 28.02.2018 on the organization and functioning of 
the National Agency for Research and Development 
Useful Links 
https://ancd.gov.md/ 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 34 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
NORWAY 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
The Research Council of Norway (RCN) 
 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Ivar Berthling 
itb@rcn.no 
+4790066509 
Eligible Institutions 
Norwegian 
research 
institutions 
(See 
definition 
and 
specification 
under 
https://www.forskningsradet.no/en/apply-for-funding/who-can-apply-for-
funding/research-organisations/ 
Eligible Applicants 
Norwegian applicants must have completed a doctoral degree or corresponding 
qualifications. 
Eligible Costs 
See: https://www.forskningsradet.no/en/apply-for-funding/Budget/ 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
Ca. € 500.000 
Within a single project proposal, the 
Norwegian contribution requested cannot 
exceed €125.000 
Other Funding Criteria 
 
Relevant documents 
General RCN conditions for funding: https://www.forskningsradet.no/en/ 
Additional Info 
After funding decision, the Norwegian part of funded projects must register 
through the RCN portal. Further information will be provided to the 
relevant partners. Follow-up of the Norwegian part of the project will 
follow RCN guidelines and deadlines. 
Useful Links 
 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 35 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
POLAND 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
National Centre for Research and 
Development (NCBR) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Kinga Szymańska-Rzeźnik 
kinga.szymanska@ncbr.gov.pl 
Eligible Institutions 
Research organizations; 
Micro, Small, Medium and Large Enterprises. 
Eligible Applicants 
Research organizations (research and knowledge-dissemination organisations); 
Micro, Small, Medium and Large Enterprises; 
Group of entities (within the meaning of art. 37 section 1 point 1a of The Act of 30 
April  2010 on the National Centre for Research and Development, published in 
Journal of Laws item 1770, 2019;). 
Eligible Costs 
The eligible costs shall be the following: 
1. personnel costs (researchers, technicians and other supporting staff to the 
extent employed on the research project); 
 
2. cost of contractual research, costs of consultancy and equivalent services used 
exclusively for the research activity; this cost type cannot account for more than 70% 
of all eligible costs of a project; the subcontracting can be obtained from consortium 
partner only in justified case, this need will be verified by a national experts panel; 
 
3. operating costs including: 
• costs of instruments and equipment, technical knowledge and patents to the 
extent and for the period used for the research project; if such instruments and 
equipment are not used for their full life for the research project, only the 
depreciation costs corresponding to the life of the research project, as calculated on 
the basis of good accounting practice, shall be considered eligible; 
• costs for buildings and land, to the extent and for the duration used for the 
research project; with regard to buildings, only the depreciation costs corresponding 
to the life of the research project, as calculated on the basis of good accounting 
practice shall be considered eligible; for land, costs of commercial transfer or actually 
incurred capital costs shall be eligible; 
• other operating costs including costs of materials, supplies and similar products 
incurred directly as a result of the research activity; 
4. additional overheads incurred indirectly as a result of the research project; that 
costs should account 25% of all eligible project costs; That costs (4) are counted as a 
multiplication by percentage given above (called x%) and the rest of direct costs, 
excluding subcontracting (2); It means 4=(1+3)*25%. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 36 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Funding quota of Polish participants can be up to 100% for research organizations. In 
the case of enterprises, funding quota will be decided on a case-by-case basis 
depending on the size of the company, type of research/development, risk associated 
with the research activities and commercial perspective of exploitation, under 
Section 2 of the Regulation of the Minister of Science and Higher Education of 25 
February 2015 on criteria and rules on granting state aid and “de minimis” aid by the 
National Centre for Research and Development, published in Journal of Laws item 
299, 2015. 
 
 
Large 
Enterprises 
Medium 
Enterprises 
Micro/Small 
Enterprises 
Universities 
and research 
organizations 
Fundamental/Basic 
Research  
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
n/a 
Industrial/Applied 
Research 
Up to 50+15  
(max 65 %) 
Up to 
50+10+15 
(max 75 %) 
Up to 
50+20+15 
(max 80 %) 
Up to 100 % 
Experimental 
development 
Up to 25+15  
(max 40 %) 
Up to 
25+10+15 
(max 50 %) 
Up to 
25+20+15 
(max 60 %) 
Up to 100 % 
 
In any case only Industrial/Applied Research and Experimental Development will be 
funded.  
Other type of activities (e.g.  coordination, dissemination, management) cannot be 
included into separated task. 
All eligible entities, invited to submit Polish proposal are obliged to use the rate of 
exchange of The European Central Bank dated on the day of opening the call. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
600 000 € 
In relation to the budget limit it is recommended 
that one project partner can require up to  
200 000 €. 
Other Funding Criteria 
Organization must be registered in Poland. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
For enterprises it is strongly advised to state in the Pre-proposal application form in 
table for Project coordinator/Project partner, in the row “Other information”: the 
KRS number of the enterprise and the size of the enterprise (micro/small, medium, 
large). 
A condition for the participation of a group of entities as the Applicant in the 
competition is its formal existence on the date of submission of the pre-proposal, 
confirmed by its members concluding, at least conditionally, agreement on the creation 
of a group of entities. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 37 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Please note that group of entities counts as two project partners from Poland (it meets 
the limit on the number of participants from the same country, please see call text for 
details). 
Useful Links 
https://www.ncbr.gov.pl/programy/programy-miedzynarodowe/ 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 38 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
PORTUGAL 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Foundation for Science and Technology 
(FCT, I.P.) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Germana Santos 
Rui Munhá 
germana.santos@fct.pt / 213911569 
rui.munha@fct.pt / 213911538 
Eligible Institutions 
Please check National Regulation at: 
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/projectos/regulamentofundosnacionais.phtml.en (Articles 3-5) 
Eligible Applicants 
Please check National Regulation at: 
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/projectos/regulamentofundosnacionais.phtml.en (Article 6) 
Eligible Costs 
Please check National Regulation at: 
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/projectos/regulamentofundosnacionais.phtml.en (Articles 7-9) 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
300.000 € 
100.000 € 
Other Funding Criteria 
If more than one Portuguese institution participates in a consortium, the budget must be 
shared, with the maximum limit of requested funding set at 100.000 € per consortium. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations 
Additional Info 
In addition to the national regulations, within a transnational call specific rules of the 
consortium may be applicable; please read carefully the Call Text and all the related 
instructions. 
Portuguese applicants will have to fill in and send a Declaration of Commitment 
(DC) duly signed and stamped to the NCPs via email. FCT may require the 
original of the DC in the future (Article 5 of the National Regulation). Check the 
National Regulation terms for admission and acceptance of proposals and projects, namely 
concerning the update of technical and financial reports and return of funds of 
ongoing/concluded projects, and situation of proposals previously submitted to FCT regarding 
pending decisions, scientific areas and other calls. 
Useful Links 
Access to electronic submission tool: https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de  
Access to FCT webpage dedicated to this Joint Call: 
https://www.fct.pt/apoios/cooptrans/eranets/aquaticpollutants/index.phtml.en 
https://www..fct.pt/apoios/cooptrans/eranets/aquaticpollutants/index.phtml.pt 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 39 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
ROMANIA 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Executive Agency for Higher Education, 
Research, Development and Innovation 
Funding (UEFISCDI) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Mihaela Manole 
 
Nicoleta Dumitrache 
Mihaela.manole@uefiscdi.ro 
0040.21.302.38.63 
Nicoleta.dumitrache@uefiscdi.ro 
0040.21.302.38.86 
Eligible Institutions 
Eligible entities for funding are universities, public institutions, R&D national institutions, 
joint-stock companies, SME’s and Large companies, NGOs (associations, foundations, 
etc.), others. Funding rates vary in accordance with state aid legislation. 
Eligible Applicants 
Eligibility of principal investigator. 
Eligible Costs 
a. Staff costs;  
b. Logistics expenses  
- Capital expenditure ;  
- Expenditure on stocks - supplies and inventory items;  
- Expenditure on services performed by third parties cannot exceed 25 % of the funding 
from the public budget. The subcontracted parts should not be core/substantial parts of 
the project work;   
c. Travel expenses;  
d. Overhead (indirect costs) is calculated as a percentage of direct costs: staff costs, 
logistics costs (excluding capital costs and cost for subcontracting) and travel expenses. 
Indirect costs will not exceed 20 % of direct costs. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
500.000 € 
250.000 € for all romanian partners in case a 
Romanian institution is the Coordinator;  
200.000 € for all romanian partners in case a 
Romanian institution is not the Coordinator; 
(please read: https://uefiscdi.ro/pachet-de-
informatii-suprogramul-3-2-orizont-2020) 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 40 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Other Funding Criteria 
 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
 
Useful Links 
https://uefiscdi.ro/pachet-de-informatii-suprogramul-3-2-orizont-2020 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 41 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SCOTLAND 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Scottish Enterprise (SCOTENT) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Karen Fraser 
karen.fraser@scotent.co.uk  
+44 141 4685658 
Eligible Institutions 
Universities (in a consortium led by a company, having at least two companies, and 
with at least one of these being Scottish-based and undertaking R&D in Scotland and 
limit of one research organisation). 
Eligible Applicants 
Any company.  Only universities and companies in the Scottish Enterprise area are 
eligible (those in the Highlands and Islands area are not eligible). 
Eligible Costs 
Project-specific costs including salaries, overheads, equipment, IT, consultancy, 
training, materials, trials, IP, in whole or in part as per pre-defined criteria available 
on request. 
 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€ 752,000 
No limit 
Other Funding Criteria 
Co-funding rate of 25-50% of eligible costs and subject to Scottish Enterprise policy 
and procedures and EU State Aid Regulation.  Preference to proposals with the 
greatest economic impact.  
Relevant documents 
• 
Appendix 
of 
SCOTENT 
national 
regulations 
on 
https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de/call1/national-funding-regulation 
(click 
on 
SCOTENT logo) 
• 
Scottish Enterprise Large R&D Grant guidelines (see link below).  
Additional Info 
Consortiums must consist of a Scottish based company and 2 other EU member 
states. 
Useful Links 
https://www.scottish-enterprise.com/support-for-businesses/funding-and-
grants/growing-your-business/research-and-development-grant 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 42 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SOUTH AFRICA 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Water Research Commission (WRC) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Mr Tiyani Chauke 
Tiyanic@wrc.org.za 
+27 12 761 9304 
Eligible Institutions 
South African registered Universities, Science Councils, Research Institutions and 
Private Sector conducting research, development and innovation. 
Eligible Applicants 
 
Eligible Costs 
Direct project related cost: personnel, project activities and procurement of 
equipment and Other direct costs: consumables and travel costs (flight, 
accommodation, allowance and visa fees) to participate in the project kick-off and 
other obligatory project consortium meetings. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€130,000 
Maximum of €50,000 per project for the 
duration of the project and not per annum. 
*The WRC will use an standard average 
rate of 1R=€15 for all projects* 
Other Funding Criteria 
1) To access the WRC funding, all SA lead researchers in approved AquaPolllutants 
projects will be required to submit a funding application through the WRC Online 
Business Management System (BMS) as the first step for contracting process and also 
for national reporting. The submission on BMS is mainly to capture the already 
approved project on the WRC system.  
(2) All projects should be aligned to one or more of the WRC strategic objectives to 
qualify for funding. Check WRC website for more information and there must be a 
clear distinction of new elements and value addition to projects that have been 
previously funded by the WRC through national calls. Misaligned projects and failure 
to clearly distinguish the new elements in previously funded projects will lead to 
funding rejection regardless of Water JPI approval. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 43 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Additional Info 
(1) SA partners are encouraged to include students in the projects for capacity 
building.  
(2) Before submitting the proposal to the AquaPolllutants call secretariat, it is advised 
that the SA partner share the project outline with the WRC also highlighting the 
required financial cost for the SA partner to get WRC endorsement. The project 
outlines should be submitted to the WRC NCP not later than 2 weeks before the 
call deadline to allow sufficient time for the WRC expert to assess the application.  
(3) The WRC National Contact Point will facilitate and assist with partner matching 
between SA and for WaterJPI call partners countries if necessary.  
(4) To raise awareness and promote the call in SA, the WRC will share the 
information on the call information session that will be conducted virtually by the 
AquaPolllutants secretariat and also live stream the session using WRC social media 
channels. The WRC NCP will also be available for bilateral meetings with individual 
institution as per invitation.  
 
Useful Links 
Any concerns relating to the FMS can be directed to bms-suppot@wrc.org.za 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 44 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SPAIN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Agencia Estatal de Investigación (AEI) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Abraham Trujillo Quintela 
aquapollutants@aei.gob.es 
+34 916038359 
Eligible Institutions 
Eligible entities for the State Research Agency funding are:  
Non-profit research organizations, which must comply with the requirements 
established by this transnational call and with the rules on eligibility 
defined in the PCI 2020. 
 
Spanish partners belonging to Hospitals, primary health care or public health 
administration of the National Health System (SNS) or belonging to Accredited 
Health Research Institutes (Institutos de Investigación Sanitaria acreditados, IIS) or 
CIBER and CIBERNED should apply for funding to the National Institute of Health 
Carlos III (ISCIII), also participating in this transnational call. Please, check ISCIII rules. 
 
Spanish Principal Investigators must demonstrate experience as investigators in 
projects funded by the Plan Estatal I+D+i 2013-2016, the Plan Estatal I+D+i 2017-2020, 
ERC Grants, European Framework Programmes or other relevant national or 
international programmes. 
 
AEI and the ISCIII reserve the right to exchange applicants in order to maximize the 
available funds, provided the respective eligibility rules are met. 
Eligible Applicants 
Incompatibilities: These must be taken into account when participating in different 
ERA-Nets or other international initiatives. 
- Principal Investigators are not allowed to apply for funding in more than one 
proposal of this ERA-NET AquaticPollutants cofounded call, in more than one 
proposal in the same PCI call or in two PCI calls in consecutive years. 
- Principal Investigators must remain unchanged between the proposal to this 
transnational call and the PCI 2020 call. 
 
The State Research Agency will avoid double funding (overlapping with other EU or 
National funding) and will not grant projects or parts of projects already funded. 
Eligible Costs 
Personnel costs for temporary employment contracts (scholarships are not eligible). 
Current costs, small scientific equipment, disposable materials, travelling expenses 
and other costs that can be justified as necessary to carry out the proposed activities. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 45 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Indirect costs (overheads) and clinical trials are not eligible for funding in the PCI 
call. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
1.000.000 € 
• 
Maximum amount of funding per legal entity 
eligible for AEI should not exceed €150.000 
for a 3-year project.  
• 
Maximum per proposal is €200.000, 
independently of the number of legal entities 
applying. 
• 
In addition, 50.000 more can be requested if 
the transnational proposal is led by a PI 
eligible for AEI funding. 
Other Funding Criteria 
Centres formed by different Spanish legal entities will be considered as a unique 
entity, and thus the maximum funding should not exceed the limits per proposal 
established above (for example, to mixed centres). 
 
The final funding will take into account the transnational evaluation of the 
collaborative proposal, the scientific quality of the Spanish group, the added value of 
the international collaboration, the participation of the industrial sector, and the 
financial resources available. 
 
Projects duration will be between 24 to 36 months. 
Relevant documents 
Programa Estatal de Investigación, Desarrollo e Innovación Orientada a los Retos de la 
Sociedad, Plan Estatal de Investigación Científica y Técnica y de Innovación 2017-2020. Plan 
Estatal. The projects granted by the State Research Agency must be aligned with the 
main objectives described in the Programa Estatal. 
 
The instrument for funding the Spanish partners will be the national call on 
International Joint Programming or its equivalent (Programación Conjunta Internacional, 
PCI), which is expected to be launched in 2020 (PCI 2020). As a reference, the 
beneficiaries are advised to read the call PCI 2019. 
AquaticPollutants cofunded call will be managed by the Subdivisión de Programas 
Científico-Técnicos Transversales, Fortalecimiento y Excelencia. 
Additional Info 
Any publication or dissemination activity resulting from the granted projects must 
acknowledge the State Research Agency funding: “Project (reference nº XX) funded 
by the State Research Agency through PCI (or its equivalent)”. 
Useful Links 
Esquema ERA-NETs 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 46 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SPAIN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III (ISCIII) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Mauricio García-Franco 
mauriciog@isciii.es 
+34 91 822 2885 
Eligible Institutions 
Hospitals, primary health care or public health administration of the 
Spanish National Health System (SNS) 
These institutions may manage research via a foundation regulated in accordance to 
the Spanish Act 50/2002, of December 26th (a copy of the foundation’s statutes 
may be submitted). 
Accredited Health Research Institutes (Institutos de Investigación Sanitaria 
acreditados, IIS) 
Accredited according to the RD 339/2004, of February 27th or RD 279/2016 (These 
institutions may manage research via a foundation regulated according to the 
Spanish 
Act 
50/ 
2002, 
of 
December 
26th) 
http://www.eng.isciii.es/ISCIII/es/contenidos/fd-investigacion/fd-institutos-
investigacion-sanitaria/listado-de-iis-acreditados.shtml 
CIBER or CIBERNED 
Team members applying to the call must be from at least two groups belonging to 
CIBER in two different home institutions and one of these two should be a 
Hospital, primary health care or public health administration of the Spanish 
National Health System (SNS) or Accredited Health Research Institutes 
(Institutos de Investigación Sanitaria acreditados, IIS).  
NOTE: other public research organisations and private non-for profit organisations 
should apply to the State Research Agency (AEI) also participating in this 
transnational call. Please, check AEI rules. 
 
AEI and the ISCIII reserve the right to exchange applicants in order to maximize 
the available funds, provided the respective eligibility rules are met. 
Eligible Applicants 
Principal Investigators (PIs) can only participate in one project proposal. 
The Principal Investigator (PI) and all members of the research group must belong 
to the eligible institution or be affiliated to CIBER, CIBERNED or an IIS. 
Excluded personnel as Principal Investigator (PI): 
• Those undergoing a postgraduate training in Health Specialization (MIR, FIR, 
QIR, BIR, PIR). 
• Those undergoing research training (e.g. PhD students, or “Río Hortega” 
contracts). 
• Researchers contracted by a RETIC or a CONSOLIDER. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 47 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
• Those undergoing postdoctoral training (e.g. “Sara Borrell” or “Juan de la 
Cierva” contracts). 
Eligibility of costs, types and their caps 
Personnel costs for temporary employment contracts (scholarships are 
not eligible).  
Current costs, small scientific equipment, disposable materials, travelling 
expenses and other costs that can be justified as necessary to carry out 
the proposed activities. 
Overheads, according to AES 2020. 
Double funding of the same concept is not allowed. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
250.000€ 
2-3 projects tentatively 
envisaged to be funded 
• 
Up to 175,000 € per partner (overheads 
included)  
• 
Up 
to 
250,000 
€ 
per 
coordinator 
(overheads included) 
Other Funding Criteria 
PLEASE NOTE:  
I. Applicants from ISCIII are eligible. Eligibility criteria from AESI 2020 apply.  
II. Same institution cannot participate with more than one partner in the same 
project proposal. 
III. Only one PI per beneficiary institution may be funded within the same proposal. 
IV. SMEs and other private companies are encouraged to participate at their own 
cost, as subcontractors or funded by CDTI. 
V. There is no other incompatibility with AES 2020. 
Incompatibility for application to any other call are subject to the provisions in the 
relevant call. 
Submission of the proposal at the 
national level 
National applications will be required by ISCIII. The national submission period will 
be published at AES 2020. 
Spanish Applicants should periodically check in the web page of ISCIII if they are 
qualified. ISCIII may not send invitations to the mandatory national phase. 
Submission of other information at the 
national level 
Due to administrative and legal regulations, the National Institute of Health Carlos III 
declares the end of September 2020 as national deadline for the decision on fundable 
project consortia which include Spanish partners to be funded by ISCIII. Any 
concerned applicant in a proposal for which no final decision has been made by the 
deadline, could be declared not fundable by ISCIII. 
Any publication, data base, product or event protected with IPR or not, resulting 
from the granted project must acknowledge “Award no. XX by ISCIII thorough AES 
2020 and within the AquaticPollutants framework” even after the end of the project. 
Submission of financial and scientific 
reports at the national level 
Follow up of national grants will be according to AES 2020. 
Requirements on data and repositories 
Researchers funded by ISCIII must make public the human genomic data, as well as 
relevant data (phenotype and exposition data) generated inside the funded project 
and will use open access repositories. Researchers must also make public all the 
necessary information for the interpretation of these genomic data, including lab 
protocols, data instruments survey tools. Regarding genomic data it is understood: 
association of complete genomes (GWAS), matrixes of de polymorphism of a single 
nucleotide (SNP) and sequence of genome, and transcriptomic, metagenomic, 
epigenomic and gene expression data. The researchers whose projects are funded by 
ISCIII are recommended to store their scientific data at the "ELIXIR Core Data 
Resources", or if non-European repositories or data bases are to be used they must 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 48 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
be certified by ELIXIR or the US National Center for Biotechnology Information 
(NCBI). 
ISCIII may not fund any project that may require a repository and/or a data base 
without a plan ensuring sustainability and decommissioning after the end of funding. 
Useful Links 
www.isciii.es 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 49 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SWEDEN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Swedish Research Council for Environment, 
Agricultural Sciences and Spatial Planning 
(FORMAS) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Petra Wallberg 
petra.wallberg@formas.se 
Eligible Institutions 
Grants for research projects can only be administered by a Swedish university, 
university college or other Swedish public organisation that fulfils the grant 
administrating organisation eligibility requirements of Formas.  Please check:  Formas 
Eligible Institutions 
Eligible Applicants 
To be eligible to apply for grants from Formas, main applicants and co-applicants must 
have a doctoral degree. Other people participating in the project (e.g. doctoral 
students, technicians, lab assistants) do not need to have a doctoral degree. 
Eligible Costs 
Admitted costs 
Project grants from Formas may be used for financing of salary for researchers, 
doctoral students (up to three years) and technical staff (including social-security 
contributions). Grants may also be used to finance running costs (e.g. consumables, 
equipment under 500 kSEK, travel, conferences, publication in open access journals), 
equipment depreciation costs and premises costs.  
For existing employment positions, the current salary at the time of application 
(including social-security contributions) must be used for each of the subsequent years. 
For new employment positions the starting salary at the grant administrating 
organisation must be used for each subsequent year. Note that the total salary costs 
awarded by Formas for an individual researcher, doctoral student or other member of 
the project may never exceed 100 per cent of a full-time position. 
Budget specification 
• 
Personnel: Salary costs including social fees and LKP 
• 
Travel (Missions): Traveling cost for meetings, data collection and so on.  
• 
Consumables (Running costs): All the costs that are related to the research 
activities as well as equipment under 500 kSEK, publications in open access 
journal, equipment depreciation costs and premises costs.  
Overhead: Formas funds overhead costs according to the Swedish universities or 
institutions policies. 
 
 
 
 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 50 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
1 500 000 € 
The maximum amount which can be requested by 
Swedish applicant(s) is limited to: 
€ 500,000 (if Swedish Coordinator) 
or 
€ 300,000 if Swedish Participant(s) 
Other Funding Criteria 
Ethical guidelines and open access: 
For information regarding Formas’ ethical guidelines and issues concerning public and 
open access to research results and scientific data. Please check: 
http://www.formas.se/en/Financing/Ethical-Policy/ 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
Swedish applicants involved in proposals invited to step 2 are requested to submit a 
proposal to Formas/Prisma after instructions from Formas NCP. 
Each Swedish PI awarded funding must submit a financial and scientific report to Formas 
when the project has ended. 
Useful Links 
More details in the national/regional call announcement https://formas.se/en/start-
page/archive/calls/2020-01-14-aquatic-pollutants.html 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 51 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SWEDEN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Swedish International Development 
Cooperation Agency (Sida) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Markus Moll 
Markus.Moll@sida.se  
+46 72 143 42 46 
Eligible Institutions 
Sida will support the participation of researchers from low-income countries in sub-
Saharan Africa, and other sub-Saharan African countries where Sweden has bilateral 
development cooperation. 
 
Institutions eligible to apply are Africa-based domestic universities or other academic 
research institutions, including non-profit organizations and international organizations, in 
the following countries: 
Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, 
Congo (Dem. Rep.), Eritrea, Ethiopia, The Gambia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Rwanda, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo, 
Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
 
Profit-making organizations are not eligible to receive Sida funding within this initiative. 
Eligible Applicants 
African researchers employed by domestic universities or other academic research 
institutions, including non-profit organizations and international organizations, in the 
countries specified above are eligible to apply. 
 
Researchers from profit-making organizations are not eligible to receive Sida funding 
within this initiative. 
 
Researchers may only be listed as a project coordinator or research partner on one 
project application. However, multiple submissions from multiple projects with 
researchers based at the same institution are allowed. 
 
Only proposals addressing aspects of antimicrobial resistance (AMR), 
including resistant pathogens, resistance genes and antibiotics and other 
antimicrobial substances, under any of the themes and subthemes defined in 
the call are eligible for funding. 
Eligible Costs 
Eligible costs include salaries, consumables, equipment, travel and indirect costs. 
Grant funds may not be used to reimburse expenses incurred prior to the project start 
date. 
 
Sida will not fund projects or parts of projects that have been funded through other calls. 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 52 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
No grantee is permitted to make sub-grants, but all grantees will be permitted to 
contract for services, up to a maximum of 20.000 Euro. Please be aware that this limit 
applies to funds paid by an awardee to any other organization (or an individual employed 
at another organization) as a subcontractor. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
15.000.000 SEK (approx. 
1.420.000 €) 
2.500.00 SEK (approx. 237.000 €) for individual 
partners and 5.000.000 SEK (approx. 474.000 
€) for projects consisting of two or more 
partners eligible for Sida funding 
Other Funding Criteria 
Grants to project coordinators/partners funded by Sida can only be administered by a 
university or other academic research institution. 
 
General conditions applicable to grants from Sida to NGO:s regarding 
project/programme support will apply to all institutions considered for a grant - see 
Appendix A of SIDA national regulations on https://aquaticpollutants.ptj.de/call1/national-
funding-regulation (click on SIDA logo ). 
 
Before, deciding on grant funding, the capacity of each applicant’s institution to 
administrate funds will be assessed according to Sidas regulations for contribution 
management, and the projects’ adherence to the Swedish strategy for research 
cooperation and research in development cooperation; 
https://www.regeringen.se/49f23e/contentassets/35640f803c554f5abe17800242c5bcb3/str
ategi-for-forskningssamarbete-pdf-for-webb-eng-2.pdf. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
Additional Info 
Individuals that are members of projects invited to make a full proposal may be required 
to submit additional information that pertains to their specific work and/or budget within 
the research consortium to Sida, or a designated partner organization. 
Useful Links 
https://www.sida.se/English/  
 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 53 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
SWEDEN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Swedish Research Council (SRC) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Patriq Fagerstedt 
patriq.fagerstedt@vr.se 
+46 (0)8-54644246 
Eligible Institutions 
Grants from the Swedish Research Council shall be administered by a Swedish 
university or HEI or another Swedish public organisation that fulfils our criteria for 
administrating organisations. To apply, your organisation must therefore be approved 
as an administrating organisation. Please note that as a consequence, Swedish 
researchers working for a company cannot be financed, and should 
therefore not submit an application to the Swedish Research Council, 
even if they are part of a consortium application. 
Eligible Applicants 
You must hold a Swedish doctoral degree or a corresponding foreign degree, 
awarded no later than the deadline for this call. 
You may only submit one application for this grant, and you may only be the Swedish 
partner of one consortium in this call. The applicant may not have an ongoing JPIAMR 
grant or any other project grant concerning the same project concept, funded by the 
Council, at the start of the grant period. 
Eligible Costs 
The project grant may be used to fund all types of project-related costs, such as 
salaries (including your own salary, however no more than corresponding to the 
person’s activity level in the project), running costs (such as consumables, travel 
including stays at research facilities, publication costs and minor equipment), premises 
and depreciation costs. 
Grants may not be used for scholarships. If a doctoral student participates, project 
funds may not be paid out as salary during teaching or other departmental duties. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
19 000 000 SEK 
Total amount per project proposal: 
500 000 EUR (SWE Coordinator) or 300 
000 EUR (SWE Partner(s)) for all Swedish 
applicants together, including indirect 
costs. 
Other Funding Criteria 
The Swedish Research Council will support research projects under all three themes 
of the call - Measuring/Evaluating/Taking Actions - under the condition that the 
project includes research on pathogens and antimicrobial resistant bacteria from 
aquatic ecosystems (inland and marine). 
All Swedish applicants must communicate with the national contact person regarding 
their intention to participate in the call, before submission of the consortium 
application. 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 54 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
All Swedish partners participating in the call and applying for funding from the 
Swedish Research Council shall also submit a parallel application using the Swedish 
Research Council’s application system Prisma. The application form in Prisma can be 
reached from the call text at the SRC website. 
Parallel application is a mandatory eligibility criterion. Failure to submit the parallel 
application to the Swedish Research Council before the deadline of the Prisma call 
will result in the Swedish partner being declared ineligible. 
Relevant documents 
See national call text for all national regulations: 
https://www.vr.se/5.12596ec416eba1fc845121d.html 
Additional Info 
 
Useful Links 
More details in the national/regional call announcement: 
https://www.vr.se/5.12596ec416eba1fc845121d.html 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 55 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
TAIWAN 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Ministry of Science and Technology (MoST) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Ching-Mei Tang 
cmtom@most.gov.tw 
Eligible Institutions 
In compliance with the MoST’s regulation “Operation Guidelines for MOST Research 
Grants”:  
• 
Applicant institutions (i.e., research conducting institutions) shall be 
approved by MoST to be eligible recipients of subsidization in accordance 
with the Operation Guidelines for Institutions Applying for MOST Grants.  
 
• 
The eligible institutions are classified into three categories as follows: 
� Taiwanese public/private colleges and universities. 
� Taiwanese public/private research institutions 
� Taiwanese Medical institutions 
Eligible Applicants 
In addition, the Principal Investigator(s) and co-Principal Investigator(s) must meet 
several qualifications, please refer to:  
https://www.most.gov.tw/most/attachments/920c4b8e-21d4-4d2b-b603-5602690c575e 
Eligible Costs 
please refer to:  
https://www.most.gov.tw/most/attachments/920c4b8e-21d4-4d2b-b603-5602690c575e 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
€500,000 
€85,000 annually 
Other Funding Criteria 
As detailed in Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
Relevant documents 
please refer to:  
https://www.most.gov.tw/most/attachments/920c4b8e-21d4-4d2b-b603-5602690c575e 
Additional Info 
Please note that Taiwanese project partners shall submit a proposal to the MoST for 
national financing after the project has been selected and approved for funding through 
the AquaticPollutants evaluation and selection process. 
Useful Links 
Ministry of Science and Technology (MoST) 
https://www.most.gov.tw/?l=en 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 56 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
TUNESIA 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific 
Research (MHESR) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Awatef Soltane Marzouki 
Saida Rafrafi Farhat 
Zied Kbaier 
awatef.soltane.dpps@gmail.com 
| P. +216 71 835 351 
coopint2@gmail.com 
| P. +216 71 835 351 
kbaier.zied@gmail.com 
| P. +216 71 835 351 
Eligible Institutions 
Tunisian public research institutions: 
- 
Research institutes or centers; 
- 
Research laboratories/units based at the universities. 
Eligible Applicants 
The Tunisian Principal Investigator (PI) should be a: 
- 
Professor or equivalent 
- 
Associate Professor or equivalent 
- 
Assistant professor or equivalent 
Eligible Costs 
Eligible costs are those used exclusively for the purpose of achieving the objectives of 
the project. All expenses must be incurred between the start date and the end date 
of the project and must be limited to the allocated budget. 
The following expenses would be eligible: 
a. 
Travel and daily allowances 
b. 
Other operating expenses directly related to the project 
c. 
Small equipment, logistics and consumables 
d. Contract provide services (exclusively for non-permanent administrative and 
research staff): should not exceed 20% of the total budget 
e. 
Organisation of scientific events and meetings 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount per Proposal 
150.000 € 
MHESR has reserved 20.000 € /project /year 
Other Funding Criteria 
- 
The duration of the project should not exceed 3 years. 
- 
The Tunisian Coordinators or the PI should send their annual, mi-term and 
final reports to the MHESR without any prior notification. SMEs and NGOs 
are not eligible to receive funding from MHESR, but it is recommended to 
involve them. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 57 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Additional Info 
Applicants are encouraged to submit proposals involving at least one socio-economic 
partner eligible for MHESR funding such as technical centers. 
Useful Links 
www.mes.tn 
 
 
 
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 58 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
TURKEY 
 
 
Funding Organisation: 
The Scientific and Technological Research 
Council of Turkey (TUBITAK) 
 
National Contact Point (NCP) 
Name: 
Email and Phone: 
Almila Nur ARSUNAR 
 
Nihan AKDEMİRCİ 
almila.bahar@tubitak.gov.tr  
 +90 312 298 12 56  
nihan.morali@tubitak.gov.tr  
 +90 312 298 12 55 
Eligible Institutions 
Higher education institutions, their institutes, public R&D centres, SMEs and 
companies established in Turkey. 
Eligible Applicants 
Eligibility of applicants should be checked from national call announcement. 
Eligible Costs 
Personnel, travel, equipment/tool/software, service procurement, material costs.  
Budget restrictions for private sector applicants should be checked from national call 
announcement. 
Funding Commitment 
Total Amount for the Call 
Maximum Amount Per Proposal 
750.000 EUR 
1.500.000 TL (including Project Incentive 
Premium (PIP) and overhead costs) 
Other Funding Criteria 
For each Turkish partner in the project team, budget limitations below should be used;  
• 
The maximum funding per project for Turkish partners from Universities 
(public and private), research institutes, and public institutions is 720.000 TL. 
This amount excludes Project Incentive Premium (PIP) and overhead costs.  
• 
The maximum funding per project for Turkish partners from private 
corporations is 1.000.000 TL for Turkish partners. This amount excludes 
overhead costs. 
Relevant documents 
National Regulations   
https://www.tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/256_sayili_bk_islenmis_hali-1071-1_0.pdf  
https://www.tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/yonetmelik_iii_2_0.pdf  
https://tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/3653/13_yk_islenmis_hali_ardeb_idari_mali_esa
slar.pdf 
Additional Info 
Please check TUBITAK website where all detailed information will be provided in 
national call announcement. 
 
Turkish partners will make their online application via TUBITAK’s online system 
available from http://uidb-pbs.tubitak.gov.tr/   
  
National/ regional regulations & regional contact points 
 
 
 
 
 
 59 
Joint Call 2020 – Risks posed to human health and the environment by pollutants and pathogens present in water resources 
 
 
Turkish partners will use E-Signature for their applications. Detailed information can 
be achieved via website: 
http://www.tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/281/ardeb_eimza_yardim_dokumani.pdf  
(Hard copy of documents need NOT to be sent.) 
 
In addition to the national regulations, within a transnational call specific rules of the 
consortium may be applicable; please read carefully the Call Text and all the related 
instructions. 
Useful Links 
https://www.tubitak.gov.tr 
http://uidb-pbs.tubitak.gov.tr/ 
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
CONFAP - CNPq – THE UK ACADEMIES 2019 
Fellowships, Research Mobility, and 
Young Investigator Grants for UK 
researchers in Brazil 
 
 
The fifth round opens on 13th of December, 2019 for applications and will close on 6th 
of of April, 2020 at 12.00 midday Brasília Time.  
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated by its National Council 
(CONFAP), and the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development 
(CNPq) are launching a call for proposals offering support to researchers based in UK 
Universities and Research Institutions, who are willing to work in research institutions 
in Brazil, in collaboration with local colleagues.  
 
 
 
The Brazilian State Funding Agencies participants of this call for proposals are: 
 
1. Fundação Araucária – Paraná; 
2. FACEPE - Pernambuco 
3. FAPDF – Distrito Federal; 
4. FAPEAL - Alagoas 
5. FAPEAM – Amazonas; 
6. FAPEG – Goiás; 
7. FAPEMA – Maranhão; 
8. FAPEMIG – Minas Gerais; 
9. FAPEPI – Piauí 
10. FAPERGS – Rio Grande do Sul; 
11. FAPERJ – Rio de Janeiro; 
12. FAPES – Espírito Santos; 
13. FAPESB - Bahia 
14. FAPESC – Santa Catarina; 
15. FAPESP – São Paulo; 
16. FAPESPA – Pará; 
17. FUNCAP – Ceará; and,  
18. FUNDECT – Mato Grosso do Sul.  
 
The call offers support for researchers in the UK through:  
 
a) Fellowships;  
b) Research Mobility Grants, and,  
c) In the case of UK young researchers aiming at working in universities and 
research institutes in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, this call also offer the 
opportunity of Young Investigator Grants comprising a scholarship plus a 
research funding grant.  
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
 
These activities are under the auspice of the Newton Fund, an initiative that aims to 
develop the long-term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through 
building research, innovation capacities, and is part of the UK’s Official Development 
Assistance commitment.  
 
These awards offer an opportunity for the UK researcher to develop the strengths and 
capabilities of their research groups through training, collaboration and reciprocal visits 
with partners in some of the best research groups in Brazil.  
 
For further information, please contact fundonewton.confap@gmail.com. For 
researchers aiming at developing activities in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, please 
contact chamada-ukacademies@fapesp.br. For researcher aiming at CNPq support, 
please contact UKACA@cnpq.br. 
  
a) How to apply  
 
i. 
For researchers outside the State of São Paulo applications are available at: 
https://sigconfap.ledes.net/ from 20th of January, 2020 
ii. 
Researcher from the State of São Paulo, or Young Investigators from the UK 
aiming at receiving funds from FAPESP to work in a university or research institute 
in the state of São Paulo, Brazil, must send proposals directly to FAPESP. Please 
follow the specific guidelines for FAPESP at http://www.fapesp.br/13846 
iii. 
The proposal must be submitted in English 
 
2. Eligibility  
 
a)  The applicants must hold a PhD degree:  
a.1) Young researchers are considered to hold a PhD degree from 2 years to 7 years.  
a.2) Senior researchers must hold a PhD degree for over 7 years.  
 
b) The applicants must have a Brazilian-based collaborator as their co-applicant (host 
researcher).  
 
c) The applicants must hold a permanent academic post or postdoctoral 
fellowship/position in the UK which extends beyond the period of the requested 
grant;  
 
d) UK researchers from the natural sciences, engineering, medical sciences (including 
clinical or patient-oriented research), social sciences and humanities fields, are 
eligible to apply for support.  
 
e) Some FAPs may have their own Guidelines associated to this Announcement. 
Interested parties are advised to consult their supporting FAP before preparing a 
proposal. 
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
f) The CNPq support is directed to the mobility of British applicants to the States 
where the FAPs who are members of the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 
22nd September 2017, however it is not mentioned as participating FAP on this 
activity.  
 
g) Proposals from the co-applicants that will request the support of CNPq must follow 
the rules and inform the value of the support defined by this Institution.  
 
h) For submissions to FAPESP the following criteria hold, according to the type of 
support aimed at:  
 
 h.1) Research Fellowships: the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-
applicant) in charge or as a principal investigator of an ongoing grant of the following 
types: Thematic, Young Investigator, Engineering Research Centers, Public Policy 
Research, or Research, Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centres. Please note 
that support will be Granted through FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grants 
(www.fapesp.br/147).  
h.2) Researcher Mobility, support will also be through Visiting Researcher Grants 
(www.fapesp.br/147): there must be a host researcher (co-applicant) in the State of São 
Paulo, but not necessarily in charge of an ongoing FAPESP grant.  
h.3)Young Investigator Grants: the UK applicant must have a PhD or equivalent title, 
an outstanding research track record, and typically 2-5 years post-doctoral experience in 
a research group in the UK.  (www.fapesp.br/en/11315)  
 
i) The application form must be filled in English and the budget detail must be 
informed in Brazilian Reais (R$). 
 
3. Types of grants  
 
3.1 Fellowships  
 
3.1.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the State of 
São Paulo  
 
Fellowship support is offered through two categories for a period of 6 to 36 months:  
 
a) For Young Researchers:  
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 7,000.00  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
 
b) For Senior Researchers:  
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 10,000.00  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
 
3.1.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo  
 
In the state of São Paulo fellowship support is offered through FAPESP Visiting 
Researcher Grant for a single period to a maximum of 12 months. As mentioned, 
the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in charge of an 
ongoing grant of the following types: Thematic; Young Investigator; Research, 
Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centres; Engineering Research Centers or 
Public Policy Research (more details at http://www.fapesp.br/en/visiting):  
 
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.830,00 (Young Researcher) 
to R$ 16.110,00 (Full Professor). The level of payment is to be suggested by the 
host investigator and confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance.  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher.  
 Grant to the host PI with whom the visitor will be associated: the host PI may 
request FAPESP supplementary funds up to R$ 25.000.00 for every six months of 
stay of the visitor. These funds are to be used for research related expenses with 
consumables, services, and travel.  
 
3.2 
Research Mobility support  
 
3.2.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the state of 
São Paulo: 
 
Two types of mission can be considered:  
 
a) Mission up to fifteen days:  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance.  
 Daily support in a value defined by the FAPs or CNPq. 
 
b) Mission from sixteen days to three months:  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance.  
 A monthly scholarship in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly.  
 
3.2.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:   
 
Please note only one single mission is supported by FAPESP, not multiple visits. Three 
types of mission can be considered: 
 
a) One single mission from five to fifteen days: 
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance OR 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of values.  
 
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
b) One single mission from fifteen  days to up to one month: 
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance, and 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of values.  
 
c) One single mission from one to twelve months:  
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance, and 
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.680,00 (Young Researcher) 
to R$ 15.870,00 (Full Professor). The level is to be suggested by the host 
investigator and confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 
3.3 Young Investigator Grant (only for FAPESP applicants) 
In addition to the above, for young investigators from the UK to start a research career 
in a university or research institution in the State of São Paulo, FAPESP offers, as part 
of the State of São Paulo side matching funds, an opportunity through its Young 
Investigator Grants. A FAPESP Young Investigator Grant, a 5-year grant, comprises 
funds for (more details at www.fapesp.br/en/11315):  
 
 Equipment, consumables, services, and travel necessary to the 4-year research 
project.  
 A monthly scholarship for the Young Investigator of R$ 8.377,50 (tax-free) to be 
paid for up to four years or until he/she obtains a permanent position in a university 
or research institution in the State of São Paulo.  
 A quota of scholarships for undergraduate students who will work in parts of the 
research project (Scientific Initiation) and a quota of MSc and Direct Doctorate 
scholarships for graduate students, to be selected and supervised by the Young 
Investigator.  
 In addition to the approved budget for the discriminated items mentioned above 
FAPESP includes a value equal to 15% as an overhead to be used in direct research 
infrastructure or non-anticipated expenses (e.g. travel, visitors,..) necessary for the 
project, and another 10% that is awarded as an institutional overhead.  
 
4. Selection criteria  
 
All applications will be assessed through a peer review process based on the following 
criteria:  
 
a) The quality of the proposed research project.  
b) The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area 
of proposed research.  
c) The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
d) The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Brazilian-based co-applicant and 
Brazilian host organization in the area of proposed research.  
e) The additional benefits for the Brazilian based Co-applicant and host organization.  
f) Evidence that the support will lead to a long-term collaboration beyond the tenure of 
the award.  
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
5. Announcement of the Result 
 
Results from this call for proposals will be announced from middle of August 2020. 
 
Due the internal procedure of the institutions involved on this call for proposal, it is 
suggested that the planned mobility be scheduled from December 2020.  
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
1 
 
DIRETRIZES PARA A CHAMADA UK ACADEMIES 2019/2020 
Fellowships, Research Mobility, and Young Investigator Grants for UK researchers in Brazil. 
 
REQUISITOS ESPECÍFICOS PARA PROPOSTAS SUBMETIDAS À FAPDF 
 
1.Objetivo 
Apoiar a vinda de pesquisadores britânicos para trabalhar em conjunto com pesquisadores 
brasileiros, no Distrito Federal. 
 
2.Modalidade do Apoio 
Research Mobility Grants (missões de 15 dias a até 3 meses)  
O apoio é oferecido por meio de duas modalidades: 
2.1 Missão até quinze dias: 
a) Passagem aérea (ida e volta e classe econômica) e seguro-viagem. 
b) Diárias, que compreendem hospedagem, transporte urbano e alimentação, em 
consonância com o disposto na Instrução nº 02, de 06 de janeiro de 2016, publicada no 
DODF nº 5, de 08 de janeiro de 2016, página 2. 
2.2 Missão de dezesseis dias a três meses: 
a) Passagem aérea (ida e volta e classe econômica) e seguro-viagem. 
b) Bolsa mensal no valor de R $ 7.000,00 mensais. 
 
3. Cronograma 
Data de lançamento da chamada: 13/12/2019  
Início do período de submissão no SIGCONFAP: 20/01/2020 (segunda-feira) 
Data de encerramento da chamada: 06/04/2020 
 
4. Elegibilidade 
4.1 São elegíveis pesquisadores britânicos das áreas de ciências naturais, engenharia, 
ciências médicas, ciências sociais e humanidades. 
4.2 Os proponentes devem ser pesquisadores doutores a pelo menos dois anos e no máximo 
de sete anos (young researchers) ou acima de sete anos (senior researchers). 
4.3 Para participar é preciso haver um pesquisador doutor colaborador no Brasil, vinculado a 
uma Instituição de Ensino Superior (IES) no Estado, como co-proponente (host researcher). 
4.4 Da Instituição de Ensino Superior 
Instituições públicas ou privadas de ensino, pesquisa, institutos, centros de pesquisa, 
empresas de base tecnológica ou de desenvolvimento, todas sem fins lucrativos, 
constituídas sob as Leis brasileiras e que tenham sua sede e administração no DF, com a qual 
o Coordenador possua vínculo laboral celetista ou estatutário permanente. 
 
5. Submissão 
As propostas deverão ser enviadas até o dia 06 de abril de 2020 por meio do endereço 
https://sigconfap.ledes.net/ 
 
6. Avaliação 
6.1 As propostas serão avaliadas e homologadas pela FAPDF. 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
2 
6.2 A avaliação será realizada por 02 (dois) consultores ad hoc selecionados pela FAPDF. 
6.3 Serão avaliados os seguintes critérios: 
6.3.1 Qualidade e Relevância; 
6.3.2 Sustentabilidade; 
6.3.3 Capacitação; 
6.3.4 Relevância do desenvolvimento internacional do tema. 
6.4 Em caso de empate as propostas empatadas serão encaminhadas a um terceiro 
consultor Ad-Hoc. 
 
7. Dos Recursos Financeiros 
7.1 Para a presente Chamada serão destinados recursos da FAPDF, no valor total de 
R$250.000,00 (duzentos e cinquenta mil reais). 
 
8. Itens financiáveis 
8.1 Diárias, que compreendem hospedagem, transporte urbano e alimentação, em 
consonância com o disposto na Instrução nº 02, de 06 de janeiro de 2016, publicada no 
DODF nº 5, de 08 de janeiro de 2016, página 2. 
8.2 Passagens aéreas, fluviais e terrestres, internacionais, tendo obrigatoriamente a cidade 
de Brasília - DF como origem ou retorno. 
8.3 Seguro-viagem. 
 
9. Itens não financiáveis 
9.1 Toda e qualquer despesa que não esteja relacionada no item 8. 
 
Casos omissos serão resolvidos pelo Conselho Diretor da FAPDF. 
A íntegra desta Chamada pode ser observada no endereço eletrônico www.fap.df.gov.br 
 
ALESSANDRO FRANÇA DANTAS 
Diretor Presidente 
 
