
 
        
                                                             
 
 
 
 
ITALY – BRAZIL 
JOINT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COOPERATION 
CALL FOR JOINT PROJECT PROPOSALS  
  
CLOSING DATE: <24th of January 2020> 
For Italy: 17:00 CET (Central European Time) 
For Brazil: 13:00 PDT (Pacific Daylight Time) 
 
In the framework of the Scientific and Technological Cooperation Agreement between the 
Government of the Italian Republic  and the Government of the federal Republic of Brazil, signed in 
Rome on February 12th, 1997 and entered into force on December 15th, 1998, the Directorate General 
for Cultural and Economic Promotion and Innovation – Office IX of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
and International Cooperation and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies - 
CONFAP, hereinafter referred to as the “Parties”, initiate hereby the procedures for the drafting of the 
Executive Programme of Scientific and Technological Cooperation for the years 2020-2022.  
 
GENERAL INFORMATION 
A. FUNDING SCHEME 
 
The present call concerns joint research projects of “Particular Relevance”, where research activities 
are co-founded by both Parties. In Italy, this scheme requires about 50% co-funding by the proposing 
research institution. 
 
B. AREAS OF COOPERATION 
 
Projects may be submitted in one of the following priority research areas: 
1. 
Artificial Intelligence 
2. 
Basic Sciences (Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics)  
3. 
Communicable diseases 
4. 
Distributed power generation from renewable sources 
5. 
Nutrition and metabolic diseases 
  
 
6. 
Precision Agriculture 
7. 
Space science 
8. 
Sustainable production and use of strategic minerals 
Projects submitted in other research areas will not be considered for evaluation. 
 
C. ELIGIBILITY CONDITIONS 
 
 
For the Italian Party, the call is open to public or private research organizations. 
The Coordinator/Principal Investigator (PI) must hold: 
o Italian or any other EU nationality 
o legal residence in Italy 
o a permanent position, or a temporary position covering at least the time extent of the 
project  
 
 
For the Brazilian Party the call is open to: 
o Coordinators/researchers, who are implementing research activities within Brazilian 
universities, institutes or research centres:    
o Additional eligibility criteria may be requested by the supporting State Funding 
Agencies - FAPs, which shall, in such cases, publish specific guidelines:  
o Participants from Brazil must verify with their respective FAPs such rules and 
modalities. 
 
The project proposals must be jointly elaborated and must be submitted by the Principal 
Investigators of both Parties, in the same priority area.  
Proposals submitted to only one of the two Parties or in different areas will not be considered. 
For the Brazilian side, in case of involvement of more than one State within the same proposal, the 
submission must be done by the Brazilian PI/Coordinator, on behalf of the other involved PIs from 
other Brazilian States. 
 
 
D. PROJECT REQUIREMENTS 
 
o Projects must be written in English. Projects submitted in other languages will 
not be considered for evaluation 
o Projects must have the same duration of the Executive Protocol (three-years: 2020-
2022) 
o Each researcher can submit only one project proposal as Principal Investigator (PI). 
  
 
o For the Brazilian side, applicants must previously consult their respective FAP, which 
defines its specific eligibility conditions and project requirements.  
o 
In Italy, for projects involving experiments with animals, ethics approval by the 
competent Ethics Committee must be provided when submitting the proposal. The 
approval is mandatory to obtain formal authorization from the competent Ministry of 
Health to start the activities (D.Lgs 26_04/03/2014 and Directive 2010/63 EU). Projects 
involving experiments with human beings must be performed in accordance with the 
Directive 536/2014/EC. The Italian Principal Investigator should include a self-
declaration of adhesion to the above cited rules in the text of the proposal. 
 
E. PROCEDURES FOR THE SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS 
 
The joint proposal must be submitted to both Parties, in particular:  
 
1. The Italian coordinator/PI must submit the proposal to the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
and International Cooperation exclusively through the ad hoc online platform: 
http://web.esteri.it/pgr/. Any inquiry about the present call can be addressed by e-mail to: 
dgsp-09bandi2@esteri.it 
2. The Brazilian coordinator/PI must submit the project proposal to CONFAP, through the 
following link: http://confap.org.br/news/confap-maeci/  
In case of projects involving more than one Brazilian State, the Brazilian consortium shall 
have to identify one coordinator/PI who shall submit the proposal on behalf of the Brazilian 
consortium. 
The proposal must include all the relevant information regarding the involved researchers 
(PIs), from the other States (including the respective documentation such as the CVs and 
the endorsement letters from their institutions). 
 
a. Researchers (either if Brazilian PIs/coordinators or if Brazilian PIs part of the 
consortium) from the States of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco and Minas 
Gerais must send the proposals through the call’s link mentioned above and also 
directly to links indicated below.  
i. São Paulo - FAPESP: http://www.fapesp.br/13760 
ii. Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ: https://sisfaperj.faperj.br/sisfaperj/  
iii. Pernambuco - FACEPE: http:agil.facepe.br/ 
iv. Minas Gerais – FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/ 
 
3. Documentation: project proposals should include all the following documentation: 
a. For both Italy and Brazil: 
  
 
i. Research Project and related Work Plan, following the evaluation criteria 
indicated in item “F. Project Evaluation and selection at the national and 
bilateral level”; 
b. For the Italian side, an endorsement letter, signed by the legal representative of the 
applying Institution, must be submitted by the call deadline to the following address: 
progetti.st@esteri.it. Any additional support letters by other academic institutions 
included in the partnership or by private companies, must be sent by the call 
deadline to the same e-mail address (progetti.st@esteri.it). 
c. For Brazil:  
i. Endorsement letter from the University or Research centre of Origin of the 
Brazilian PI; in case of more than one Brazilian State involved, each PI 
should annex the endorsement letter of its respective institution. 
ii. Curriculum Vitae of all the involved Brazilian PIs  
 
F. PROJECT EVALUATION AND SELECTION AT THE NATIONAL AND BILATERAL 
LEVEL 
 
At the closure of the call, all applications received will be checked for eligibility requirements.  
Eligible applications will then move on to a two-step selection process:  
 
STEP 1. Projects will be evaluated at the national level according to the following criteria: 
o Scientific relevance  
o Methodology and documentation 
o Qualification of the applicants 
o Added value of the bilateral cooperation                                        
o Involvement of early career researchers in the research teams 
o Budget adequacy with respect to methods and expected results 
Preference will be given to: 
- 
Proposals involving more than one national public/private research organization, and for Brazil 
more than one State Funding Agency; 
- 
Initiatives with potential industrial impact and/or involving industrial partners (support letters 
can be included)  
 
 
STEP 2. The final list of projects eligible for funding will be negotiated within the Joint Commission 
including representatives of both Parties, as defined in Article 5 of the aforementioned Agreement. 
 
 
 
  
 
G. REASONS FOR EXCLUSION 
 
 
Lack of eligibility conditions (see section C: Eligibility Conditions); 
 
Submission of more than one proposal by the same coordinator/PI 
 
Incomplete application (see section D: Project Requirements) 
 
Application drafted in other languages than English 
 
Institution of the Brazilian PI located in Sates not supporting the present call (for the list of 
supporting FAPs see section I: Funding procedures) 
 
H. PUBLICATION OF RESULTS 
 
For the Italian Party, the list of selected projects will be posted exclusively on the website of the Italian 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation at the following address: 
http://www.esteri.it/mae/it/politica_estera/cooperscientificatecnologica/programmiesecutivi/accordi_p
rogrammi_culturali_tecnologici.html 
 
For the Brazilian Party, the list of selected projects and funding procedures will be posted exclusively 
on the website of CONFAP and of FAPs involved in this call for proposals at the following address: 
http://www.confap.org.br. 
 
I. FUNDING PROCEDURES 
Funding will be granted to the projects listed in the Executive Programme within the limits of 
the available annual resources of each Party. 
 
For the Italian Party, financial contribution by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International 
Cooperation is intended as co-funding of about 50% of the project’s total costs; therefore the applying 
Institution must co-fund the remaining 50% on the basis of the salary of involved personnel and indirect 
costs of the project. The applying Institution is expected to anticipate all project expenses and will be 
reimbursed on a yearly basis after submitting fully completed and adequately documented 
reimbursement papers. 
According to the Italian law Nr.401/90, at the beginning of each year of activity, the Principal 
Investigators of the projects listed in the Executive Programme will be invited to submit a request for 
funding, in accordance with a specific annual call issued by Office IX of the Italian Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs and International Cooperation. Call details will be available, in due time, at the following link: 
http://www.esteri.it/mae/it/politica_estera/cooperscientificatecnologica/avvisiincaricobandi.html 
  
 
For the Brazilian Party, each participating FAP defines the maximum contribution for the call, so as 
the specific eligible costs. Such definitions are published in the respective Guidelines, which each 
FAP shall publish, referred to the present call. 
Any inquiry about the present call can be sent to: elisa.confap@gmail.com.  
Any inquiry which refers to the support given by the participating FAPs must be sent to the respective 
contacts indicated below. 
List of FAPs and respective contacts, so as the allocated budget is listed below: 
 
 
Brazilian States & FAPs 
Maximum 
Total Budget 
(Euros) 
Contacts 
1 
Alagoas – FAPEAL 
50.000,00 
antonio.carvalho@fapeal.br  
2 
Amazonas – FAPEAM 
100.000,00 
gabinete@fapeam.gov.br  
3 
Espírito Santo – FAPES 
100.000,00 
parcerias@fapes.es.gov.br  
4 
Federal District – FAPDF 
220.000,00 
Regina.buani@fap.df.gov.br  
5 
Goiás – FAPEG 
110.000,00 
comunicacao.fapeg@goias.gov.br 
6 
Mato 
Grosso 
do 
Sul 
– 
FUNDECT 
25.000,00 
projetos@fundect.ms.gov.br  
7 
Minas Gerais – FAPEMIG 
100.000,00 
dpi@fapemig.br  
8 
Pará – FAPESPA 
30.000,00 
lucasscs@hotmail.com 
9 
Pernambuco - FACEPE 
10.000,00 
neildes.paiva@facepe.br 
10 
Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ 
300.000,00 
assessoriainternacional@faperj.br 
11 
Santa Catarina – FAPESC 
100.000,00 
internacional@fapesc.sc.gov.br 
12 
São Paulo – FAPESP 
320.000,00 
Chamada-maeci@fapesp.br 
13 
Tocantins - FAPT 
65.000,00 
munique.oliveira@fapt.to.gov.br 
 
J. CALL CALENDAR:  
 
 
Publication of the Call: 25th of November 2019 
 
Deadline for submission of proposals: 24th of January 2020 
o For Italy: 17:00 CET (Central European Time) 
o For Brazil 13:00 PDT (Pacific Daylight Time - Time in Brasilia) 
 
