1  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
                                                         
   
   
WORKSHOP GUIDELINES APRIL 2015 
1. Background 
Tackling global challenges – such as extreme weather conditions, urbanisation, access to 
affordable health care, food and energy security and meeting the social and economic needs of a 
growing population – requires an integrated research and innovation approach, bringing together 
communities from different disciplines, sectors and countries in high-quality collaborations. The 
Newton Fund aims to build UK-Partner country research and innovation collaborations centred on 
these shared research and innovation challenges which have direct relevance to our partner 
countries‟ social welfare and economic development. 
Specified countries outside the Newton Fund may also take part in Researcher Links. For 
Workshops with these countries, the development criteria do not apply. 
2. Overview of the funding opportunity  
This element of Newton Researcher Links provides financial support to bring together a UK/partner 
country bilateral cohort of early career researchers to take part in workshops to 
 
build research capacity in developing economies  
 
building links for future collaboration and  
 
enhancing the researchers‟ career opportunities.  
The programme is supported by UK government and partner country funding and, except in 
Russia, forms part of the Newton Fund (www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/newton/). The 
call is open to all institutions meeting the requirements listed below (please see Annex 1).  
Each workshop will be coordinated by two Leading Researchers1, one from each country, and will 
focus either on a specific research area or on an interdisciplinary theme (for example „Sustainable 
Cities‟). Workshop coordinators can identify up to four additional Leading or Established  
Researchers1 (two from each country) to be involved in the workshop and act as mentors, but the 
remaining participants must be researchers at an earlier stage in their career.  
Proposals in any discipline/multidisciplinary area will be accepted (including from the natural 
sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities). However, some countries may have specified 
priority areas which must be adhered to (see Annex 1).  
In the April 2015 call, we are inviting proposals for Researcher Links Workshops with the following 
partner countries and UK.   
Brazil, Malaysia, Thailand, Russia 2 
                                                
1 For an indication of profiles for the different categories of participants, we suggest applicants refer to the 
European Commission document ‘Towards a European framework for research careers’  
(http://ec.europa.eu/euraxess/pdf/research_policies/Towards_a_European_Framework_for_Research_Caree 
rs_final.pdf). According to the categories in this document, we would suggest that coordinators and mentors 
should be at „R4 – Leading Researcher‟ level or „R3 – Established Researcher‟ level, and early career 
participants at „R2 –Recognized Researcher‟ level or at the beginning of R3 level.  
 2  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
Further countries may join the call a little later 
In South Africa, our South African co-funder, NRF, will be running a separate call.  
Subsequent calls for proposals may involve different partner countries.  
3.  Scope of the programme 
All Researcher Links-funded workshops will have the following three overarching objectives:  
• 
Support international development-relevant research – Workshops are intended to support 
research areas relevant to the economic development and welfare of partner countries (except 
Russia) 
• 
Contribute to capacity building of early career researchers – The workshop must 
contribute to the personal and professional development of the participants. Workshop 
coordinators should indicate how they envisage this occurring, including any plans for long-
term mentoring of early career researchers (either within each country, or cross-nationally).  
• 
Establish new research links or significantly develop existing links, with the potential for 
longer term sustainability – The aim of the workshop is to stimulate longer term links 
between the UK and partner countries, as well as to contribute to the personal and professional 
development of the participants. The workshop proposal should include an explanation of the  
benefits to both the UK and partner country researchers and institutions. Coordinators should 
outline the specific outputs anticipated and explore any potential longer term benefit that might 
arise, thinking about who might benefit and how they might benefit and describing the actions 
that will be taken to ensure that potential impact is realised.  
4. Relevance to economic development and social welfare (NOT RUSSIA)  
For the purpose of the Newton Fund Researcher Links Programme, we define research and 
innovation with development relevance as activities that have the potential to contribute to the 
economic development and social welfare of Newton Fund low- and middle-income countries3, 
benefitting poor and vulnerable populations in these countries. In order to be considered for 
funding under this Programme, all proposals must clearly articulate a plausible pathway to 
positive impact on these populations within a short- to medium-term timeframe (3-15 years). 
Applications which do not meet this criterion cannot receive UK Newton funding.   
Under this Programme, topics can fall into one or more of the following research and innovation 
challenge areas (unless specified further in Annex 1 for individual countries). Multidisciplinary 
proposals are welcome, which may include Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities. The 
challenge areas are as follows: 
 
Agriculture (e.g. irrigation, crop yields) 
 
Climate and environment (e.g. climate change, green technology, sustainable development, 
ecosystem services, resource scarcity) 
 
Sustainable energy for all 
 
Education research and innovation for development 
 
Economic growth (e.g. equitable growth, financial sector development, private sector 
development) 
 
Health (e.g. HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, neglected tropical diseases, child mortality, 
maternal health) 
                                                                                                                                                             
2 Please note Russia is not a Newton Fund country 
3 As defined by the OECD DAC list of official development assistance (ODA) recipients 
(http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/daclistofodarecipients.htm). 
 3  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
 
Water and sanitation 
 
Food and nutrition (including food security) 
 
Demographic change and migration 
 
Rural and urban development 
 
Infrastructure (including civil engineering, information and communication technologies, big 
data for social and economic development) 
 
Humanitarian disasters and emergencies, disaster risk reduction 
 
Resilient and connected communities 
 
Governance, society and conflict (e.g. transparency, accountability, effective institutions, 
land and natural resource rights, poverty alleviation, social development, structural 
inequalities, violence and security, peace building, civil society) 
 
Development-relevant data collection, quality and access (including administrative data and 
macroeconomic statistics). 
5. Detailed specifications 
Leading the Workshop: Leading Researchers (see footnote 1 on previous page) should apply as 
workshop coordinators. The proposal must be a joint application, with one coordinator based at a 
UK institution and one based in the partner country. Applications should be submitted with the 
support of the home institutions of the Leading Researchers, though a letter of support uploaded 
with the application form. Only one application may be submitted per Leading Researcher, but 
there is no limit to the number of applications submitted per institution.  
Location of the Workshops: Workshops will by default take place in   the partner country (i.e. 
outside the UK) unless indicated otherwise in Annex 1. However, if there is a compelling reason for 
the workshop to take place in the UK, then this should be detailed in the proposal and agreed 
separately with the British Council.  
Duration of the Workshops: The minimum duration of a workshop is 3 days and the maximum 
duration is 5 days.  
Timing of the Workshops: Workshops should take place between 1st November 2015 and 31st 
March 2016.  
Participation in the Workshops: Between 15 and 20 researchers from each country can take part 
in each workshop. Participants must be based in the UK or in the partner country; if coordinators 
wish to bring in participants from a third country they must be discuss this first with the British 
Council, and note that the travel costs of the third country researcher may not be covered under the 
budget.  
 The two coordinators can propose up to two additional Leading/Established Researchers (see 
footnote on page 1 for a definition) from each country to act as mentors (included in the maximum 
of 40 participants who can be funded, see Funding Available, page 6. The remaining – and majority 
of – workshop places will be allocated to early career researchers through an open call once the 
British Council has notified the applicants that their proposal was successful. Criteria for the 
selection of early career researchers will be made available to workshop coordinators. However, 
we would expect early career researchers to have been awarded their PhD not more than 10 years 
prior to the workshop, but allowances can be made for career breaks. If a researcher does not hold 
a PhD, but has research experience equivalent to a PhD holder and works in a field where a PhD 
is not a pre-requisite for established research activity, they will still be considered eligible.   
 4  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
Role of the workshop coordinators: Coordinators determine the workshop theme, shape the 
content/agenda of the workshop submit the online application form along with a budget request.   
Workshop coordinators – overseen by the relevant British Council country office and in-country 
partners, if appropriate – will also be responsible for selecting early career researchers to 
participate in the workshop if the proposal is successful.  
Workshop coordinators are responsible for all workshop logistics (including travel arrangements for 
participants and booking of the workshop venue). The costs of the workshop organisation are 
covered by the Researcher Links grant. In most cases, the grant agreement will be signed by the 
UK workshop coordinator‟s home institution which will be responsible for the management of the 
grant (including financial reporting). However, in some countries this is subject to change and the 
final terms will be communicated to successful applicants.  
In some participating countries, the relevant British Council country office may organise the 
workshops on behalf of the coordinators, in which case all logistical arrangements will be managed 
and paid for directly by the relevant country office. Please see Annex 1 for information on which 
countries this applies to. However, responsibility for the preparation of the proposal (including the 
budget request), the workshop content and the selection of early career participants will still lie with 
the workshop coordinators.  
Role of the Mentors: Established Researchers can give keynote lectures but should also act as 
mentors to the early career researchers during the workshop, sharing their experience and 
knowledge. Ideally, they would also remain in contact with the early career researchers after the 
workshop has finished, in order to share networks and contacts.  
Language: Workshops will be held in English. It is expected that all participants will have a 
sufficient standard of English to engage fully in discussion. However, consideration should be given 
to non-native speakers.  
Content of the workshop: Workshop coordinators will be expected to lead on developing the 
research content of the workshops. However, as workshops are intended to be a career 
development opportunity with a focus on promoting international collaboration, workshops are 
expected to follow set guidelines to facilitate this. The following is a brief overview of the guidelines; 
more detailed guidance will be provided to successful applicants:  
• 
Sessions should be designed to be as interactive as possible, and participants encouraged 
to share knowledge, experience and ideas. Workshop coordinators and mentors should 
share their expertise. A professional facilitator may be used during the workshop if it is felt 
that this would support optimal interaction.  
• 
Suggested sessions:  
o Formal keynote lectures by the workshop coordinators and mentors. These should 
take up no more than half a day in total (ideally spread over the workshop).  
o Research sessions where the early career researchers are able to share their 
current research, e.g. in poster format or oral presentations.  
o Networking sessions where researchers are able to interact and explore 
opportunities for collaboration e.g. speed-networking sessions  
o Overview of the research base and funding opportunities: a brief introduction to the 
research base in the UK and partner country – how research is funded, size, 
strengths, international collaborative activity, links with industry.    
o Career development opportunities in the UK and partner country. This could be an 
informal discussion amongst the researchers or a more structured look at career 
development.  
 5  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
o How 
to 
form 
international 
collaborations 
(intercultural 
skills, 
challenges, 
opportunities, best practice etc.).   
• 
Optional content within workshops (where appropriate these sessions would be welcomed 
but applications will not be disadvantaged if they do not include them):  
o Depending on the research field or theme of the workshop, coordinators may wish 
to include a session which invites industry or other non-academic partners to talk 
about cross-sectoral collaboration.  
o Public engagement activity  
o Cultural activity (proportionate to the length of the workshop) 
o Visit to a relevant research facility.  
Recruitment of participants: Successful workshop coordinators will be responsible for recruiting 
participants to the workshops through a fair and transparent process (see section “Participation in 
the Workshops” on page 3). There must be an open call for participants which must be 
disseminated through various defined channels4 (British Council will support the dissemination) and 
coordinators are encouraged to identify and employ additional avenues of communication so that 
workshops are advertised as widely as possible.  
The British Council will provide a template application form for participants which coordinators can 
adapt as appropriate, and British Council in-country teams will be available to offer advice and 
oversight where necessary. Once recruitment is completed, workshop coordinators must submit 
the list of participants to the British Council for approval.  
No more than a third of early career researchers from each country may be recruited from within 
the institutions of the coordinators and mentors.   
Equal opportunities and diversity are at the heart of the British Council‟s cultural relations 
ambitions. While recognising that some research fields are dominated by one particular gender, 
coordinators are encouraged to work towards as equal a gender balance as is possible, promote 
diversity, and ensure that no applicants are excluded from participation on the basis of ethnicity, 
gender, religious belief, sexual orientation or disability.  
6. Eligibility 
Workshops must be specific to a particular field of research or interdisciplinary in nature-as above 
in section 4. Any relevant field of research can be covered, except where partner countries have 
indicated specific priority areas (as specified in Annex 1).  
Please see our eligibility checklist at Annex 2. Applications which do not meet these criteria and   
applications which do not satisfy country-specific criteria will not go forward for full quality review.  
 
7. Funding available 
The Researcher Links grant will be paid to the workshop coordinator‟s home institutions. In most 
cases, the grant agreement will be signed by the UK workshop coordinator‟s home institution which 
will be responsible for the management of the grant (including financial reporting). However, in 
                                                
4 Examples of dissemination channels:  
• 
Euraxess: www.euraxess.org.uk   
• 
UK Research Staff Association: http://www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers/205761/UK-Research-
StaffAssociation.html  
• 
British Academy Africa Desk: http://www.africadesk.ac.uk/pages/home/   
 
 6  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
some countries this is subject to change, and the final terms will be communicated to successful 
applicants.  
Funding offered under the Researcher Links programme is intended as a contribution towards the 
costs of the workshops. Workshop coordinators are expected to add a contribution in-kind towards 
the overall cost of the workshop by dedicating their time to the planning and delivery of the 
workshops. Staff costs and honoraria cannot be covered by the Researcher Links grants. Only 
a small lump sum contribution of £2,000 can be requested to cover administrative costs (please 
see Annex 4).  
The budget request should reflect the maximum number of participants per workshop i.e. 40 
participants including coordinators, mentors and early career researchers.  
The  Workshop grant is calculated using flat rates and maximum contributions. Please see Annex 
4 for flat rates or maximum amounts that can be requested in each budget category.   
There are 5 budget categories as follows:  
International travel (paid as flat rate): travel costs for international workshop participants 
travelling to the country where the workshop takes place. It is based on the travel rate given or the 
country where the workshop takes place, for each participant travelling to that country from the 
partner country. This also covers the costs for local transport on the day of travel international 
participants, visa costs and travel insurance5. International (economy return) airfares should be 
booked by the workshop coordinators as far in advance as possible to minimise costs.  
Workshop coordinators and participants should take out adequate insurance as the British Council 
cannot take responsibility for any problems which may occur when the participants are in-country.  
Domestic travel  (paid as flat rate if required): travel costs for local workshop participants based 
in the country where the workshop takes place and is specific to that country. Partner country 
participants might not be based in the location where the workshop takes place, and this budget 
category will cover the costs of their domestic travel. The contribution is calculated using the flat 
rate given for each workshop participant.  
Subsistence (paid as flat rate):  costs of accommodation, medical insurance and daily expenses 
such as phone and local transport. Subsistence is calculated using unit costs for each workshop 
participant multiplied by the number of days of the workshop, and is specific to the country where 
the workshop takes place.  
Event costs (paid as flat rate):   costs of venue hire and meals. The event rate grant contribution 
is calculated using unit costs corresponding to 1 workshop participant multiplied by the number of 
days of the workshop, and is specific to the country where the workshop takes place.  
Contribution to additional event costs (maximum): a maximum of £200 to cover additional costs 
not already covered, e.g. projector, flip charts and other materials needed for the organisation of the 
workshops (including networking and social activities); actual costs paid from the grant  
Administrative costs (maximum): a maximum of £2,000 to cover administrative costs such as 
telephone bills, printing costs and stationery; actual costs paid from the grant.  
Payment of the grant  
Payment of the grants for the grant contribution to Researcher Links workshops will be processed 
in 2 instalments:  
                                                
5 Please note that all local travel during the workshop – for international and domestic participants – 
should be covered using the subsistence budget.  
 7  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
 
Pre-financing payment: 90% of the approved budget (following budget checks by the British 
Council) will be transferred within 30 days of British Council signature of the Grant Agreement   
 
Post-workshop payment or recovery of the balance: the amount of the final payment to be 
made to the workshop coordinator will be established on the basis of a final report to be submitted 
within 30 days of the workshop. If the workshop has not been delivered as planned, or if fewer 
participants attended than originally envisaged, resulting in a reduction in costs, the final payment 
may be withheld and if necessary a proportion of the grant recovered.  
 
8. Reporting  
Full details of reporting will be provided in due course. Workshop coordinators are requested to 
submit a final report within 30 days after the workshop. The final report template will be sent to 
successful applicants as part of the grant agreement and will include a financial and a narrative 
part along with a section requesting information on the workshop participants. As the Researcher 
Links grant for workshops is calculated using flat rates, workshop coordinators will not need to 
submit detailed receipts for each expenditure but only proof that the activities took place (e.g. 
boarding cards, invoice for the venue hire indicating the number of days for which the venue has 
been hired and proof of domestic travel for the local participants – details on the exact 
requirements will be provided to successful applicants). If there is insufficient evidence in the final 
report that the workshop took place as proposed, then additional information may be requested 
prior to the final balance payment, or the British Council may recover the unspent proportion of 
grant already disbursed.  
Workshop coordinators must keep all receipts or other financial supporting documentation and full 
checks   will be carried out on a proportion of the grants.  
Further monitoring and evaluation will also be carried out, to be specified in the grant agreement.  
 Please note that different reporting rules may apply where workshops are funded by in-
country partner organisations. 
9. Submission process  
The submission deadline is 16:00 UK time on 13 July 2015. Proposals submitted after the 
deadline will not be considered for funding. 
Applicants must submit a completed online application form (https://britishcouncil-
cxobw.formstack.com/forms/application_form_rl_wg_april2015 ).  Submissions by email will not be 
accepted. The online form allows applicants to enter information and save it for a later date until 
final submission. There are strict character limits for each section which cannot be exceeded. In 
addition to filling in the online form,   
If you experience problems with the online submission system, please contact UK-
ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org before the submission deadline. If you alert us to technical 
issues only after the deadline, we may not be able to take them into consideration when assessing 
the eligibility of your application. 
To assist you in developing your application and sharing content with your partners, you can access 
a Word version of the online form here 
http://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/britishcouncil.uk2/files/application_form_for_newton_researcher_l
inks_workshop_grants.docx. This is solely to allow you to develop your responses in a convenient 
format. The final version of your application must be submitted using the online form. 
Before the completed application form can be submitted to the system, applicants will be asked to 
confirm in the online form that they have: 
 8  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
 
Obtained permission to submit the proposal on behalf of the UK institution(s) and of the 
partner country institution(s). This should also be documented by attaching Letters of 
Support from the respective institutions signed by the Head of institution or person with 
appropriate delegated authority. 
 
Solicited the Principal Applicants‟ Institution(s) (i.e. the „Lead Institution(s)‟) willingness to 
receive the funds and to sign a grant agreement with the British Council or the national 
partner. 
 
Complied with British Council policies on prevention of fraud, bribery, money laundering and 
addressed any other financial and reputational risk that may affect a transparent and fair 
grant award process. 
 
Once the online application is submitted, the system will generate a unique application ID number. 
Applicants should note this number and use it in all communications with the British Council. 
Applicants who have not received this ID number should contact the British Council at UK-
ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org. 
10. Selection Process  
Selection begins with an eligibility check by the British Council against the eligibility criteria given 
in these Guidelines, including Annexes 1 and 2, the Eligibility Checklist. Eligible proposals will be 
assessed by expert Review Panels. The final selection decision will be made in-country in 
collaboration with national stakeholders and partner funding organisations.  
Eligible workshop proposals will be assessed in the UK by one of five Review Panels:  
• 
Arts and Humanities  
• 
Biological and Medical Sciences  
• 
Engineering, Physical and Space Sciences  
• 
Environment, Agriculture and Food Sciences  
• 
Social Sciences  
Workshop coordinators should indicate in their online application form which Review Panel their 
proposal should be assessed by, and the subject(s) their research covers. Up to 3 subject areas 
can be selected in priority order, but the applicant should indicate only one Selection Panel.   
Workshop proposals will be assessed in the UK by two reviewers, against the criteria stated in 
Annex 3. A full Review Panel will then consider all applications in that discipline.   Applications 
scoring less than 30 points after the Panel will be considered not fundable. However, achieving an 
average score of 30 or above does not mean that the proposal will be funded.  
National and partner research priorities will be considered in the final decision in addition to the 
general assessment criteria under this programme. Please see Annex 1 for priority areas by 
country.  
As detailed in section 4 of this guidance, only those proposals will be considered for funding that 
have clearly articulated relevance to the economic development and social welfare of low- and 
middle-income countries, benefitting poor and vulnerable populations in these countries (except 
Russia). 
Successful applicants will be notified approximately 10 weeks after the call deadline. Please take 
this into consideration when planning your workshop.  
11. Data protection  
As part of the online application form, the British Council will ask applicants‟ permission to:  
 9  
 RL Workshop Grants April 2015 v1  
a. Use the information provided in the application for processing the application, making 
any consequential award, for the award payment, monitoring, maintenance and review 
of the award. In some cases information will be shared with national programme 
partners for the purpose of selection and monitoring of the award.  
b. Make information on the successful applications available to the public on their website 
and other publicity, and in reports and documents.  
c. Contact applicants in the future to inform them about future British Council 
opportunities.  
Under UK Data Protection laws applicants have the right to ask for a copy of the information we 
hold on them, for which we may charge a fee, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies 
in that information. More information on this is available on the British Council data protection 
webpage (http://www.britishcouncil.org/home-data-protection.htm). Alternatively, it can be 
requested 
to 
the 
local 
British 
Council 
office 
or 
the 
Data 
Protection 
Team 
at 
dataprotection@britishcouncil.org.  
12. Contact Details  
All queries or comments about this call should be addressed to the Institutional Links email address 
UK-ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org. 
  
Annex 1 – Country-specific guidance  
  
  
Country  
In-country 
partner 
organisation/s  
Country/partner research priorities  
Additional eligibility criteria  
Brazil 
- 
FAPESP 
- 
CONFAP: 
participating 
FAPS and 
States:  
FAPEAL 
(Alagoas), 
FAPEAM 
(Amazonas), 
FAPESB 
(Bahia), 
FAPDF 
(Distrito 
Federal), 
FAPES 
(Espírito 
Santo), 
FAPEG 
(Goiás), 
FAPEMIG 
(Minas 
Gerais), 
Fundação 
Araucária 
(Paraná), 
FACEPE 
(Pernambuco)
, FAPESQ 
(Paraíba), 
FAPERN (Rio 
 
Agriculture, especially small-holder 
farming 
 
Climate and environment (e.g. 
climate change, green technology, 
sustainable development, 
ecosystem services, resource 
scarcity) 
 
Renewables and clean energy 
 
Education 
 
Economic Growth (Inclusive 
growth) 
 
Health (focus on Neglected 
diseases) 
 
Water and sanitation 
 
Food and nutrition (including food 
security) 
 
Urban transformation, urbanisation 
and human rights 
 
Infrastructure for development, 
with a focus on remote 
communities 
 
Humanitarian disasters and 
emergencies 
 
Governance, society and conflict 
In order to budget costs to be managed by the 
Brazilian researcher, applicants should consult the 
respective FAP website, using eligible events costs 
as a reference. Costs to be managed by the UK 
applicant will follow these British Council guidelines. 
 
Applicants from São Paulo applying for FAPESP´s 
funds should consult specific guidelines on their 
website and submit a copy of the proposal to the 
local address provided.  
 
All other applicants applying for their respective state 
of affiliation should submit one proposal, to the 
British Council.   
 
All FAPs are willing to finance all priority areas listed 
and winning proposals will be chosen based on 
academic merit and quality.  
 
For more information, please, consult  
http://www.britishcouncil.org.br/atividades/educacao/
newton-fund/iniciativas-no-brasil 
 
  
Grande do 
Norte, 
(FAPERGS) 
Rio Grande 
do Sul, 
FAPERJ (Rio 
de Janeiro), 
FAPESC 
(Santa 
Catarina) e 
FAPITEC 
(Sergipe). 
(e.g. transparency, accountability, 
effective institutions, land and 
natural resource rights with 
a  focus on indigenous 
populations, criminal justice, 
poverty alleviation, social 
development, structural 
inequalities, peace building, civil 
society) 
 
Development-relevant data 
collection, quality and access 
Malaysia 
Academy of 
Sciences 
Malaysia 
Theme : 
Climate Change & Sustainability 
Focus Areas: 
1. Health & life sciences 
2. Improving environmental 
resilience and energy security 
3. Future Cities 
4. Agritech 
5. Digital, Innovation & Creativity 
Proposals in the Chemical Sciences 
would also be welcome and, if 
selected, may be co-funded by the 
Royal Society of Chemistry. 
Workshops should be held in Malaysia. However, if 
the particular technology is only available in the UK, 
the workshop can be held in the UK. Applicants who 
are considering organising the workshop in the UK 
should provide concrete evidence and demonstrate 
tangible benefits to Malaysian early career 
researchers.     
  
Thailand 
Thailand 
Research Fund 
 
Environmental and Biological 
sciences 
 
Technology Transfer  
 
Humanities and Social Science 
 
Physical Sciences and 
Engineering 
 
Agriculture and food security  
 
Health, and Demographic 
change and migration 
 
Proposals in the Chemical Sciences 
would also be welcome and, if 
selected, may be co-funded by the 
Royal Society of Chemistry. 
Given the importance of expanding collaboration 
among researchers, applicants are asked to explain 
how they plan to foster collaboration through the 
International Research Network. 
 
The International Research Network 
The International Research Network (IRN) 
programme provides an excellent opportunity for 
establishing and strengthening collaborations 
between researchers in Thailand and foreign 
countries by providing a mobility fund to support Thai 
Ph.D. students to do research in an overseas 
laboratory and the exchange of postdoc researchers. 
In addition, in order to motivate the Thai academic 
institutes efficiently and contribute a wider 
international network for future collaborations, the 
IRN programme supports communications and 
visiting activities between collaborating researchers 
from Thailand and abroad, such as; having joint 
workshops, conferences and joint publications, or 
inviting other lecturers to join the team. This 
programme will create an opportunities for exchange 
of researchers and students, and facilitate more 
collaborations by allowing regular visits between 
collaborating institutes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Outside the Newton Fund   
Country  
Funding   
organisation/s  
  
Country/partner research priorities  
Additional eligibility criteria  
Russia 
Russian Foundation 
for Basic Research 
(RFBR) 
All fields of the natural sciences are 
covered. Social sciences, humanities, and 
clinical research are excluded. 
Russian coordinators should hold a 
doctoral degree (“doktor nauk”) 
 14  
  
Annex 2 – Eligibility criteria checklist  
   
The application has been submitted by the applicant by the published deadline  
  
The application has been submitted using the correct online application form  
  
The applicants have provided confirmation that the application is submitted on behalf 
of their institutions  
  
The application form is completed in full and complies with instructions given  
  
The application form has been completed in English  
  
Only one application per coordinator has been submitted in this round (please note 
that there is no limit on the number of applications submitted per institution)  
  
The workshop will take place between 1 January and 31 December 2016  
  
The institutions where the workshop coordinators are based are recognised publicly 
funded research establishments or Higher Education Institutions (can include private 
universities)  
  
Applicants must have the capacity to administer a grant and satisfy British Council 
requirements to prevent bribery, fraud and professional misconduct. Applicants will 
confirm that they comply with British Council requirements by responding to 
presubmission questions in the online application form.  
  
 
 
 
 15  
  
Annex 3 - Scoring system   
Assessment of the quality and development relevance of the proposals will be performed by panel 
members in the UK, and the final funding decisions will be made in discussion with British Council 
country office and in-country partners, if applicable. Proposals with an average score of less than 30 
points are considered not fundable. Equally, only proposals that have clearly articulated relevance to 
economic development and social welfare of the partner country will be considered for funding   
 
 
Section 1 – Relevance to economic development and 
social welfare  
  
YES/NO  
  
 The proposal clearly articulates a plausible pathway of 
how the research may contribute to the economic 
development and social welfare of the partner country and 
lead to positive impact on the lives of people on low income 
within a reasonable timeframe (3-15 years).   
Please see section 2 of the guidelines for further details.  
  
  
  
 Score  
 Range  
 Section 2 – Research quality and background  
  
  0-20  
The academic importance and timeliness of the research 
topic is clearly demonstrated.  
The applicants have sufficient relevant experience to conduct 
the proposed workshop and achieve the stated objectives.  
The collaborating institutions are of appropriate academic 
standing.  
  
20 points: Meets all criteria to 
an exceptional level  
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
very high level  
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
high level  
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level  
1 to 5 points: Meets some of 
the criteria to an adequate 
level  
 16  
  
0 points: Fails to meet any of 
the criteria to an adequate 
level.  
  
   
  
  
Section 3 – Workshop proposal  
  
  
  0-20  
The description of the proposed workshops includes clear, 
feasible and realistic objectives and outputs.  
There is clear evidence that the proposed workshop supports 
new links or significantly extends and develops existing links.  
The benefits and relevance of the collaboration to the UK and 
partner country institution, and to the research itself, are clearly 
described.  
There is strong evidence of support from the applicants‟ 
institutions  
The agenda of the workshop is well structured with interactive 
sessions  
  
20 points: Meets all criteria 
to an exceptional level  
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
very high level  
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
high level  
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level  
1 to 5 points: Meets some 
of the criteria to an 
adequate level  
0 points: Fails to meet any  
of the criteria to an 
adequate level.  
Section 4 – Sustainability and capacity building  
  
  
0-20  
 17  
  
  
The proposal includes a clear and feasible description of how 
the applicant institutions intend to sustain their collaboration over 
the longer term.  
The potential in terms of professional development and capacity 
building for early career researchers taking part to the workshops 
and other potential beneficiaries is clearly described.  
  
20 points: Meets all criteria 
to an exceptional level  
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
very high level  
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a 
high level  
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level  
1 to 5 points: Meets some 
of the criteria to an 
adequate level  
0 points: Fails to meet any  
of the criteria to an 
adequate level.  
TOTAL SCORE FOR QUALITY ASSESSMENT  
(Section 1 + Section 2 + Section 3)  
  
  
0-60  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 18  
  
  
  
Annex 4 – Budget calculation  
To calculate the budget contribution that can be requested in each category, applicants should use the 
unit costs given in table A for each country where the workshop takes place and multiply them by the 
number of international and domestic participants and by the number of days the workshop lasts. 
Please note that the unit costs given below constitute the maximum amounts that can be requested in 
each category and that all budget requests will be assessed for feasibility and appropriateness. While 
the maximum contribution cannot be exceeded, applicants can request less in which case the amount 
requested cannot be increased at a later stage.  
  
EXAMPLE:  
  
The budget for a workshop lasting 4 days and taking place in Egypt attended by 20 UK-based researchers  
and 20 researchers based in Egypt would be calculated as follows:  
 20 x £800 (international travel)  
 + 20 x £100 (domestic travel)  
 + 40 x £65 (subsistence costs) x 4 days (duration of the workshop)  
 + 40 x {£25 (event rate) x 4 days (duration of the workshop) }  
 + £200 (additional costs)  
+ £2,000 (administrative costs)  
  
= £34,600 total maximum contribution that can be requested  
  
  
 
Table A: Unit costs (in £) by country Newton Fund  
Country  
Travel  
(international)  
Travel  
(domestic)  
Subsistence 
costs  
Event costs per 
person per day  
Additional 
event costs  
Admin 
costs  
Brazil  
1,000  
250  
100  
25  
200  
2,000  
Malaysia 
        1,000 
150 
70 
30 
200 
2,000 
Thailand 
1,000 
150 
70 
25 
200 
2,000 
 
Table B: Unit costs (in £) by country outside the Newton Fund 
Country  
Travel  
(international)  
Travel  
(domestic)  
Subsistence 
costs  
Event costs per 
person per day  
Additional 
event costs  
Admin 
costs  
Russia 
800 
250 
100 
35 
200 
2,000 
 
