JD/07/17 
 
 
 
The Newton Advanced Fellowship 
 
1. Overview 
 
This programme focuses on early to mid-career international researchers who have already established 
(or are in the process of establishing) a research group or research network and have a research track 
record.  The focus will be on developing their research strengths and providing support for more 
formalised training and development in collaboration with a UK partner. The award will support the 
international researcher in their own country, providing them with funding through a UK partner to 
establish and develop collaborations with the UK with the intention of transferring knowledge and 
research capabilities to partner countries.  The Fellowship can be for up to three years, and can provide 
salary top up, research support, training costs, and travel and subsistence.  
 
This programme is offered under the Newton Fund, which is an initiative that aims to develop the long-
term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research and innovation 
capacity, and forms part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance commitment.   
 
Objectives of the Newton Advanced Fellowship: 
We will recognise and support early to mid-career group leaders in partner countries to develop their 
research by linking them with some of the best research groups in the UK. The primary aims of the 
programme are to:  
 
Support the development of a well-trained research community who can contribute to advancing 
economic development and social welfare of the partner country by transferring new skills and 
creating new knowledge. 
 
Strengthen research excellence in partner countries by supporting promising independent, early 
to mid-career researchers, and their research groups and networks, to develop their research 
through training, collaboration, reciprocal visits, and the transfer of knowledge and skills from 
the UK. 
 
Establish long-term links between the best research groups (and networks) in partner countries 
and the UK to ensure that improvements in research capacity are sustainable in the longer 
term.  
 
Subjects covered: These awards will support researchers working on a subject within the natural 
sciences, including: physics, chemistry, mathematics, computer science, engineering, agricultural, 
biological and medical research, the scientific aspects of archaeology, geography and experimental 
psychology and clinical or patient-oriented research. Applicants for social science and humanities 
should apply to the British Academy.  
 
Eligibility:  Applicants must have a PhD or equivalent research experience and hold a permanent or 
fixed-term contract (see country specific criteria below) in a University, academic research organisation, 
publically funded or not for profit research institution outside the UK, which must span the duration of 
the project. Coll 
 
  
aborations should focus on a single project involving overseas-based researcher (“the Overseas 
Applicant”) and UK-based researcher (“the Co-applicant”). We strongly welcome applications from 
female researchers.  
 
For further details please refer to the ‘Eligibility details’ below.  
 
Duration of funding:  Awards are available for up to three years (depending on country). Should the 
budget not be spent at the end of the award period, applicants may be able to apply for a no-cost-
extension of up to 12 months. 
 
Countries covered:  Researchers from the countries listed below are eligible to apply for the Newton 
Advanced Fellowships in this round.  The Royal Society and Academy of Medical Sciences have 
established partnerships with funding organisations in each of these countries (listed below).  These 
partners are offering similar opportunities for UK researchers wishing to visit partner countries. 
 
  
The Academy of Medical Sciences 
Clinical and Patient orientated 
research 
The Royal Society 
Natural and Physical Sciences 
Brazil 
in partnership with CONFAP 
in partnership with CONFAP 
China 
In partnership with the National Natural 
Science Foundation of China (NFSC) 
In partnership with the National Natural 
Science Foundation of China (NFSC) 
Mexico 
In partnership with the Mexican 
Academy of Sciences (MAS) and the 
National Council of Science and 
Technology (CONACyT) 
In partnership with the Mexican Academy of 
Sciences (MAS) and the National Council of 
Science and Technology (CONACyT) 
South Africa 
In partnership with the National 
Research Foundation (NRF) 
N/A 
 
 
Value: The following costs will be provided annually up to three years: 
 Salary top up of £5,000 for the group leader from the partner country. 
 Research support of up to £15,000:  Covering costs for a contribution towards research 
assistants, consumables or equipment. 
 Travel and subsistence of up to £12,000: Covering travel costs of the UK partner to the 
international partner and/or travel of the international partner to the UK. 
 Training costs for up to £5,000. 
 Maximum per year: Up to £37,000 
 
The maximum award value cannot exceed £111,000 for a three-year period (or £37,000 per year). 
Please note that the Fellowship does not provide overhead costs.  The only fixed cost is the salary top 
up. You may request different amounts than stated above for research expenses, travel and 
subsistence and training as part of your application up to the maximum value of £37,000 per year.  Your 
request will be considered as part of the assessment process. 
 
Please check with your research/finance office if the overseas applicant is eligible for a salary 
top up. If you are unable to receive a salary top up, the maximum of £5,000 per year can be 
attributed to other costs, such as consumables, providing this is justified in your application. 
  
 
Transfer of funds to overseas institutions: The funds associated with the award will be paid to the 
UK institution in the first instance. The UK Host organisation must identify a safe and efficient way to 
transfer the funds to the overseas institution.  
 
Closing dates: 6th September 2017 15:00 BST 
 
Results available:  Results of the competition will be available approximately 6 months after the 
application closing date. 
 
Contact Information 
Enquires about this scheme can be made using the contact details below. Before contacting us, please 
check whether your question is answered by these scheme notes.  If not, please 
email: newtonadvancedfellowships@royalsociety.org or call +44 20 7451 2291. 
 
Eligibility details 
Overseas Applicants 
 
The overseas-based researcher and/or project leader (“the Applicant”) and the UK-based 
researcher and/or project leader (“the Co-applicant”) must have completed a PhD or have 
extensive research experience at an equivalent level at the time of application.  
 
The Applicant must be working as an independent researcher at an overseas institution (in one of 
the eligible countries), and should not have more than 15 years of post-doctoral research 
experience. 
 
Applicants must either: 
o Hold a permanent independent research post in a University, academic research 
organisation or publically funded or not for profit research institution. 
 
 
OR 
o Hold a named, limited-tenured/fixed-term independent academic research post, obtained 
in open competition, and held in their own name in a University, academic research 
organisation or publically funded or not for profit research institution. Applicants must 
demonstrate that they have sufficient tenure in their post to cover the duration of the award.  
 
Contact between the overseas Applicant and the UK-based Co-applicant prior to the application 
is essential. This contact should lead to a clearly defined and mutually - beneficial research 
project proposal. Please note that the implementing academies will not be able to assist in 
locating a UK collaborator, but you can use the LinkedIn sites (here for physical and natural 
sciences, and here for clinical and patient oriented research) site on the webpage to 
communicate with interested parties. 
 
Applicants must be competent in oral and written English. The UK-based Co-applicant must 
confirm the competency of the Applicant on the application form and in their supporting 
statement. 
 
UK-based Co-applicant 
 
The Co-applicant must be an independent academic researcher based in the UK and hold a 
permanent or fixed-term contract in a University or eligible publicly funded research organisation, 
which includes government research institutes. In the case of fixed-term contracts, the 
employment must continue for at least the duration of the project. 
 
The UK based Co-applicant and their host organisation must agree to administer the grant. 
 
The Co-applicant must make all the necessary practical and administrative arrangements for the 
duration of the Fellowship. 
  
 
Applications cannot be accepted from private or commercial organisations. 
 
Country Specific Eligibility Criteria 
As well as fulfilling the above the eligibility criteria, at the request of the in country partner, applicants 
from the following countries must fulfil the below criteria: 
 
Brazil  
 
Researchers applying from Brazil must hold a permanent position  
 
Awards can only be held up to a maximum of two years  
 
China 
 
Applicants applying from China must be supported by the NSFC through the Distinguished 
Young Scholar programme or Excellent Young Scientist programme. 
 
Applicants who are NSFC Distinguished Young Scholars or Excellent Young Scientists must 
submit their application to NSFC in Chinese, together with the Flexi-Grant® form as an 
attachment, in order to be eligible for a NSFC grant of up to 500,000RMB. 
 
UK Co-applicants are limited to one application per round and are not allowed to act as a co-
applicant on multiple applications. 
 
Applicants who are NSFC Distinguished Young Scholars or Excellent Young Scientists: by 
submitting your application you are agreeing that the information provided in your 
application can be shared with NSFC. 
 
 
References 
Four reference statements are required for the application. The following individuals need to be listed in 
the application for a reference: 
 
Departmental Support 
 
UK Host Organisation approval and Departmental Support 
 
 
The UK Host Organisation approver must approve the completed application by the submission 
deadline. 
 
Under the participants tab displayed on the application form summary page, please enter the e-
mail address of the following individuals:: 
o 
The applicant’s Head of Department 
o 
The co-applicant’s Head of Department 
 
It is recommended that Departmental Support is completed at least 5 working days before the 
submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time to submit the application for organisational 
approval. 
 
Note: if either the applicant or co-applicant is the Head of Department, then details of the individual to 
whom they report to must be supplied instead i.e. Head of School/Head of Faculty/Dean.  
 
 
It is the applicant’s responsibility to liaise with the UK Host Organisation’s Approver and 
Heads of Department to inform them of the deadline, check that they have received the 
email instructions for supplying the approval or indication of support through Flexi-
Grant® and to ensure that the task is completed by the deadline.  Please contact the 
Royal Society before the deadline if there is a problem.  Alternatively, UK Host 
Organisation’s Approver and Heads of Department can contact us directly if they have 
  
not received the email.  The Royal Society will not be held responsible for emails that are 
not received due to address errors or spam filters and no provision is made for non-
receipt of emails sent by the Royal Society. 
 
 
No two references provided under the departmental support tab and the nominated referee tab can be 
from the same person. If this is the case then it may make the application ineligible, and alternative 
referees will need to be provided in accordance to the guidelines. 
 
Nominated References 
 
 
Under the participants tab displayed on the application form summary page, please enter the e-
mail address of the Nominated Referees who you wish to invite to provide the relevant 
statements. These two referees should be able to provide unbiased comment on the field of 
research and on the applicant and/or the Co-applicant. At least one of the nominated referees 
must be a UK-based researcher. 
 
The following individuals must be listed under the participants tab  
o 
The applicant’s Nominated Reference 
o 
The co-applicant’s Nominated Reference 
 
It is recommended that the Nominated Reference is to be completed at least 5 working days 
before the submission deadline to ensure there is sufficient time to submit the application for 
organisational approval. 
 
The guidelines for choosing a nominated referee are as follows:  
 
The primary consideration is that he/she is able to comment authoritatively on your 
application.  
 
At least one nominated referee must be based in the UK. 
 
It is requested that one referee be nominated by the Applicant and one by the Co-applicant. 
 
Nominated referees from the same institution as the Applicant or Co-applicant will not be 
accepted. 
 
Nominated references from the Applicant’s former/current supervisor (including PhD 
supervisor) will not be accepted. 
 
The referee must not be a member on the assessment panel for this programme or a 
member of any of the Academies’ Councils. 
 
References must be submitted in English. If a reference is not submitted in English, it will not 
be accepted and may render the application ineligible. 
 
Eligible Costs 
 
The award will be paid to the UK institution in the first instance. Both applicants need to identify the 
most efficient method to transfer the funds to the overseas institution. Payments of up to £37,000 are 
made at the beginning of each year of the award. Payments for year 2 and 3 will be processed on 
receipt of a satisfactory annual report. The maximum award value cannot exceed £111,000 for the 
three-year period. Please note that the fellowship does not provide overhead costs or administrative 
fees. 
 
 
Research support may be used to pay for: 
 
Publication costs (not more than £1,000 per year); 
 
Salary contributions of overseas research assistants (not more than £3,000 per year). 
  
 
The cost for organising a conference, workshop or seminar (not more than £3,000 per 
year). 
 
Travel expenses can be used to pay for: 
 
The cost of travel, subsistence and visas for the overseas applicant and their research 
group, including PhD students.  They may also be used for the UK co-applicant and 
experienced postdoctoral researchers in their group travelling to partner countries to 
transfer skills or provide training.  It may not be used to support travel and subsistence for 
UK PhD students.  
Timing 
Fellowships must start March 2018. The fellowships are for a continuous period of up to three years. 
 
Assessment criteria 
Successful applications should be strong in all respects but the assessment panel will give 
consideration to: 
 
Whether the proposal will support training and development of the overseas researcher and 
transfer of new skills to the Applicant’s research group. 
 
The quality of the science, the proposed research project and the track record of the overseas 
Applicant and the UK Co-applicant in the area of proposed research. 
 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
 
The expected benefits to the Newton Fund country in particular the extent to which the award will 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities which will contribute to 
advancing economic development and welfare of the country. 
 
Evidence that the Fellowship will lead to a long-term collaboration beyond the tenure of the 
award. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
The following scheme notes set out the application process of the Newton Advanced Fellowship 
scheme.  
 
 
Please read through the entire document before proceeding 
 
 
2. Timetable 
 
Applications deadline 
06/09/2017 15:00 (UK Time) 
 
 
1. Overview  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           7 
2. Timetable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
3. Application Guidance Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 8 
Completing the application form  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
               Applicant 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 9 
Summary 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Eligibility Criteria 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Contact Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Applicant Career Summary 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 
Research Proposal 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12 
Use of Animals in Research                                                                               14 
Use of Human Patients or Tissue                                                                       14 
Financial Details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
Applicant Declaration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Head of Departmental Support  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Nominated referees Support 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
4. Review Process 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15 
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 
  
3. Application Guidance Notes 
 
Using Flexi-Grant® 
Applications can only be submitted online using the Royal Society’s Grants and Awards management 
system (Flexi-Grant®) via https://grants.royalsociety.org. Support, FAQs and troubleshooting can be 
found via http://royalsocietyapplicantsupport.fluenttechnology.com/support/home. If you have not 
previously used Flexi-Grant®, please follow the registration process from the Flexi-Grant®, homepage.  
Paper-based applications will not be accepted. 
 
Before completing the online form, all applicants should check that they comply with the eligibility 
requirements and ensure all necessary information is presented in the application. These requirements 
are strictly adhered to and applications without all the necessary information, or evidence to show the 
assessment criteria are met, will be rejected. 
 
ORCID identifier: All applicants applying to the Royal Society will be required to obtain an ORCID (Open 
Researcher and Contributor ID) identifier before they can commence their application. ORCID maintains 
a registry of unique researcher identifiers and a transparent method of linking research funding, research 
publications, research data and any other research outputs to these unique identifiers. You can register 
for an ORCID identifier via https://orcid.org/register. 
Further information about the Grants and Awards Management system can be found via 
https://royalsociety.org/grants-schemes-awards/grants/flexi-grant/. 
 
Completing the application form 
The application can be completed by using the navigation tabs on the application summary page, with 
each page categorised as follows: 
 
Summary 
Eligibility Criteria 
Contact Details 
Lead Applicant Career Summary (overseas applicant/team leader) 
UK Co-applicant Career Summary (UK co-applicant/team leader) 
Research Proposal  
Use of Animals in Research  
Financial Details 
Applicant Declaration 
Head of Department Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
Head of Department Overseas Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
Nominated referees Support (of the overseas applicant/team leader) 
Nominated referees Support (of the UK applicant/team leader) 
 
 
 
Inviting Participants 
To complete and submit the application form, the lead applicant is required to provide supporting 
statement from up to four individuals (including the overseas applicants Head of Department, the UK co-
applicants Head of Department, and two nominated referees, one from overseas and the other from the 
UK). These individuals can be invited through the participants tab displayed on the application form 
summary page. Under this section of the form you will find each of the required participants as 
described above displayed. Please select invite and enter the e-mail address of the person who you 
wish to invite to provide the relevant statements, and send the invitation. Once the recipient has 
accepted your invitation, their status will be displayed as ‘active’. Upon completion of their section of the 
application form, their status will be displayed as ‘complete’. You will not be able to submit your 
application form until the status of all participants’ shows ‘complete’. You can monitor the progress of 
your participant’s activity through this section of the application form, and issue reminders is required. 
  
Please remind your participants to select the ‘mark my work as complete’ button once they have 
finished. 
 
The Research Support role displayed under the participants tab is an optional role, which allows you to 
invite an individual from the relevant UK Host Organisation research support team to review and amend 
the application prior to submission. The primary purpose is to ensure that the requested finances have 
been recorded correctly for this specific grant programme. We strongly recommend that you liaise with 
your UK co-applicant to acquire contact details of the individual within the UK Host Organisation who 
will perform this role. 
  
As this is an optional role, it will not affect your ability to submit your application for approval. 
 
Further guidance and support can be found through the applicant and approver knowledge base. 
A full list of question fields to be completed as part of the application can be found in the following 
pages.  
 
Please note that questions with * are mandatory fields, which is typically the majority of questions. 
You will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host Organisation once all 
sections of the application form have been marked as complete, and your participants have 
marked their work as complete (please check the status of participants under the participants tab 
on the application form summary page). Late applications will not be accepted. 
 
In the following table each box represents a page of the application form; the left-hand column contains 
the questions within each of these pages as set out in the form; the right-hand column contains useful 
guidance on its completion.  
 
 
 
 
  
Please read these guidance notes carefully as you complete the form. 
 
Please note the Lead Applicant must be the researcher based in the Newton 
Fund Country 
 
Summary 
Summary table 
The summary page of the application form provides instructions for submission of 
your application for approval from the Host Organisation. In addition you are provided 
with an overview for each section of your application form, and the approximate 
length of time it will take to complete each section.  
The summary page also allows applicants to manage and invite participants (eg. 
Head of Department and Nominated Referees etc) who will partake in the application 
form. Instructions for inviting participants can be found under the ‘participants’ tab on 
the application summary page. 
 
Note: you will only be able to submit your application for approval by the Host 
Organisation once all sections of the form have been completed.  
 
 
Eligibility Criteria 
Eligibility Criteria*   Confirm that the lead applicant and co-applicant meet the eligibility criteria. Details 
of the eligibility criteria can be found on page 3. 
 
Contact Details  
Title, Names, 
address, 
organisation and 
country* 
Review and complete your personal details accurately. Errors in this section can 
cause difficulties in processing your application.   
 
Under this section, you should edit the contact type of the participants who will 
partake in your application form. The system default contact type is set as 
‘collaborator’. To amend the contact type of your Head of Department, click ‘edit’, and 
under the contact type field, select the ‘Head of Department’.  
 
Organisation: this table will automatically display details of the intended Host 
Organisation ‘marked by a tick’ which you selected previously, and your current 
organisation if different from the organisation where the award will be held and 
administered. 
Email address* 
This field defaults to the account in which the application has commenced, and is 
where all correspondence pertaining to the application throughout the application 
process, and in the event of the application being successful, will be sent.  
 
 
Overseas Applicant and UK Co-applicant Career Summary 
Title of Current 
Position* 
State the title of your current position. (maximum 20 words)   
Current Employer* 
Enter the official organisation name of your current employer. 
Current 
Department* 
Enter details of your current department name (e.g. Department of Astrophysics).   
  
Current Position 
Start Date*  
Enter the date when your current position started. 
Current Position 
end Date* 
Please enter the date when your current position is expected to finish. If you are on 
a permanent contract please enter 31 December 2050. 
Subject Group/ 
Area* 
Select the subject group/area(s) that most closely reflects your area of research 
from the drop-down menu and tick box options. 
Applicant 
Qualifications* 
List all your qualifications in reverse chronological order. The depth of information 
you provide is up to you, but this will represent you under assessment and so it is 
worth including as much good evidence for your academic merit as possible. 
 
Note: You can retrieve your qualification information from your profile to complete 
this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
 
Applicant Career 
History* 
List all your posts and the dates in reverse chronological order. The depth of 
information you provide is up to you, but this will represent you under assessment 
and so it is worth including as much good evidence for your academic merit as 
possible. 
 
Please provide full details of any periods of part-time working, career breaks, 
extended sick leave or maternity/paternity/adoptive leave as your eligibility 
may depend on the accuracy of this information.  
 
Note: You can retrieve your career history information from your profile to complete 
this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
 
List your key and/ 
or relevant 
publications* 
Provide details of authors, titles and references for up to five of your best 
publications in refereed journals, in reverse chronological order. You should choose 
not only the best but also those most relevant to the application to support your 
case.  
Note: if you have an existing ORCID identifier, you can retrieve your key 
publications from your profile to complete this section of the application form. 
Field of 
Specialisation* 
Enter details of your field(s) of specialisation. (Maximum 20 words)   
Summary of Your 
Current Research* 
Provide an outline summary of your current research. Please also include a brief 
comment on the strength of your organisations. (Maximum 200 words)   
Country* 
Select the country where your current employer is based. (Overseas Applicant 
Only) 
PhD Awarded 
Date* 
Please enter the date that you were awarded your PhD. If you have not received 
your PhD, please enter your expected completion date. 
PhD Institution* 
State the name of the institution where you were awarded or are completing your 
PhD. 
PhD Country* 
State the country in which you were awarded or will be awarded your PhD 
Applicant 
Research Funding 
History* 
Please list all your current and previous research funding in reverse chronological 
order. The depth of information you provide is up to you, but this will represent you 
under assessment and so it is worth including as much good evidence for your 
academic merit as possible.  
Note: You can retrieve your qualifications and career history information from your 
profile to complete this section of the application form using your ORCID identifier. 
  
 
Research Proposal 
Project Title*  
Give the full title of your proposed project. (Maximum 20 words) 
Start Date* 
Please enter the proposed start date of the project. Start dates must commence by 
the end of March 2018.   
End Date* 
This must be either 2 or 3 years from the start date.  
Which Academy* 
Select which Academy you are applying to for funding support: Royal Society or 
Academy of Medical Sciences. 
Subject 
Group/Area*  
Select the subject group/area(s) that most closely defines the research area of the 
research proposal from the drop-down menu and tick box options. This will enable us 
to allocate the application to the most appropriate assessment panel. 
Abstract* 
Please provide a scientific summary of your proposed project. This should be a 
summary of your research proposal, briefly outlining the background and 
summarising the aims of your project. (Maximum 400 words) 
Lay Summary* 
Provide a lay summary of your proposed project. This should be understood by a 
layperson. Explain why you have chosen to work in this subject area and what it is 
about your proposed research that you find particularly exciting, interesting or 
important. Please also explain the potential impact or wider benefits to society of your 
research. (Maximum 250 words) 
Research 
Proposal* 
You can either detail your research proposal within this application form 
(Maximum 1500 words), or alternatively upload it as a PDF file. PDF files must 
be no longer than 3 sides of A4, portrait orientation, be titled and the text size 
cannot be smaller than Arial size 10. 
Your research proposal should provide a general description of the proposed 
research to be carried out. This should include, but is not limited to, the following: 
 
 
clear specification of the context and research objectives of the proposed 
study. 
 
description of the methodology to be used 
 
indication of milestones/timescales 
Training*  
A training programme is a critical aspect of the Newton Advanced Fellowship and must 
be included as part of the application. This is a requirement of the scheme and the 
Newton Fund. 
 
It is expected that the fellowship will address specific gaps relevant to the applicant’s 
own development and that of their research group. It is advised that the applicant 
undertakes a thorough skills gap analysis to identify the training required. 
 
Within the text field of the application form please provide an overall summary of the 
proposed training programme, its relevance and suitability. Please ensure you include 
the structure of the training programme (e.g. courses, training modules, specific 
activities), who will deliver and who will receive the training, which training will be 
performed at the Applicant’s institution or performed in the UK, and what are the 
expected outcomes. 
Previous 
Contact* 
Please provide details of any previous contact with the UK-based Co-applicant and 
indicate whether you have met them personally 
  
Benefits to 
Individuals/I
nstitutions* 
Describe clearly the planned outcomes and any potential benefits that will result from 
the proposed collaboration for the Applicant and their home institution. Please 
comment on how the award will benefit the career development of the Applicant and 
contribute to the transfer of knowledge and research capabilities, the added value of 
the collaboration, and any intentions for sustaining the partnership in the longer term. 
(Maximum 200 words) 
Benefits to 
Overseas 
Country* 
Describe any potential benefits to the overseas country and/or country of origin that 
will result from the proposed fellowship, especially how the research will contribute to 
the development of a well-trained research community, and how it will contribute to 
advancing economic development and social welfare of the country through 
enhanced research and innovation capacity to benefit the wider society (Maximum 
200 words). 
Benefits to 
UK* 
Describe any potential benefits to the UK and UK research that will result from 
the proposed Fellowship (Maximum 200 words). 
Data Management and Data Sharing 
The funding academies support science as an open enterprise, and are committed to ensuring that data 
outputs from research supported by the funding academies are made publically available in a managed 
and responsible manner, with as few restrictions as possible. Data outputs should be deposited in an 
appropriate, recognised, publically available repository, so that others can verify and build upon the data, 
which is of public interest.  
 
The funding academies do not dictate a set format for data management and sharing plans. Where they 
are required, applicants should structure their plan in a manner most appropriate to the proposed 
research. The information submitted in plans should focus specifically on how the data outputs will be 
managed and shared, detailing the repositories where data will be deposited. In considering your 
approach for data management and sharing, applicants should consider the following: 
 
What data outputs will be generated by the research that are of value to the public? 
 
Where and when will you make the data available? 
 
How will others be able to access the data? 
 
If the data is of high public interest, how will it be made accessible not only for those in the same 
or linked field, but also to a wider public audience? 
 
Specify whether any limits will be placed on the data to be shared, for example, for the purposes 
of safeguarding commercial interests, personal information, safety or security of the data. 
 
How will datasets be preserved to ensure they are of long-term benefit? 
 
Outline of data 
management and 
data sharing 
plan* 
If the proposed research will generate data that is of significant value to the research 
community, then please provide details of your data management and sharing plan. 
(maximum 200 words) 
Overseas Field 
Research * 
Will you be conducting field research overseas? 
Overseas Field 
Research  
(Upload only) 
Please upload documents related to the following (if applicable): 
 
1. Permission 
Any mandatory documents that show local support has been assured by way of 
permission from the government concerned to travel to and work in the country. 
 
  
 
 
 
Financial Details 
Duration* 
Specify the duration of your project: 2 years or 3 years. 
Budget Table* 
The following costs will be provided annually up to three years: 
 
 Salary top up of £5,000 for the group leader from the partner country. 
 Research support of up to £15,000:  Covering costs for a contribution 
towards research assistants, consumables or equipment. 
 Travel and subsistence of up to £12,000: Covering travel costs of the UK 
partner to the international partner and/or travel of the international partner to 
the UK. 
 Training costs for up to £5,000. 
 Maximum per year: Up to £37,000 
 To add additional years to the budget table, please click “add another 
period group” at the bottom of the table 
2. Collection of specimens 
Any mandatory documents that show: 
 
Specific permission has been obtained from the host country to collect and to 
export specimens and material. 
 
The director of the museum or other decision makers where these 
specimens will be deposited has indicated his/her desire or willingness to 
have such specimens and material 
Use of Animals in Research 
The funding academies are committed to supporting the development of alternative methods to reduce 
and/or replace the use of animals in research. Applicants proposing to use animals in their research must 
ensure that the use of animals falls within the regulations stipulated in the Animals (Scientific Procedures 
Act) 1986 and subsequent amendments. Additionally, applicants should continually be aware of 
developments in best practice, and adopt the principles of the 3Rs (https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/the-3rs) 
when designing and conducting experiments on animals. 
 
As a funder of research, the funding academies take its responsibilities towards the UK Animals (Scientific 
Procedures Act) 1986 seriously, and requires applicants to consider the questions below when preparing 
grant applications that include the use of animals. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of 
animals or 
animal tissue? * 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to complete all of the 
relevant questions on the Use of Animals in Research page.  
Use of Human Patients and Tissue 
Any application for a research proposal involving human patients or tissue and therefore requiring local 
ethical committee approval will be considered only when accompanied by the necessary permission 
certificate or proof that ethical permission will be sought, which must be provided in English. 
Does your 
proposal involve 
the use of human 
patients or 
tissue?* 
Select ‘Yes’ or ‘No’. If you have selected ‘Yes’ it is mandatory to provide either a 
certificate or letter, as proof that ethical permission has been obtained. Please upload 
the file as a PDF in portrait orientation. 
  
Justification* 
Please fully justify all claims for funding, especially the requests for Research Costs.  
Financial plan* 
 
Provide a financial management plan for the project. This should include proposed 
financial transferral mechanisms to the overseas institution (Maximum 1500 words) 
 
 
Applicant Declaration* 
Please declare that: 
 
 You have read the Terms and Conditions of Award under which Royal Society and Academy of 
Medical Sciences grants are awarded and, if a grant offer is made, you agree to abide by them. 
 You have access to the necessary facilities to enable you to deliver the research proposed, and will 
continue to have access to the facilities for the duration of the project. 
 You have agreed with your Head of Department that you will be afforded sufficient time and resources 
to deliver the research project as described in this application. 
 
 
Overseas Applicant and UK Co-applicant Head of Departmental Support* 
You should invite both Heads of Department from the overseas and UK organisation to provide a 
statement of support by following the instructions under the participants tab on the application form 
summary page. Please check that they are able to supply their statement by 6 September 2017. 
  
Please Check which email address your Head of Department would like to use, as they may already 
be registered on Flexi-Grant® and mistakes may lead to a delay in processing your application. 
 
The head of department is expected to detail your suitability for the department and also set out their 
intentions for your career progression at the host organisation. 
 
 
Overseas applicant and UK co-applicant Nominated referee Support* 
 
You should invite two referees who can provide confidential references for your application, by following the 
instructions under the participants tab on the application form summary page Please check with them that 
they are happy to provide the references, and inform them that they will be contacted by email and asked to 
provide references via the Flexi-Grant® system by 6 September 2017. 
 
At least one referee should be someone who has worked closely with you, but the other must be external to 
your current research group. You should not choose both referees from your proposed host organisation, 
and if possible, one should be an international referee. Your named Head of Department cannot be listed as 
a referee.  
 
  
 
4. 
Review Process 
 
 
All applications to the Newton Advanced Fellowships are reviewed and assessed by three 
members of the selection panel who have the most appropriate scientific expertise using the 
criteria detailed on page 6.   
 
It is expected that applicants will be notified of the outcome of their application by email 
approximately 5 months after the application deadline. 
 
Please be assured that the Royal Society and Academy of Medical Sciences specifically requests 
anyone involved in reviewing applications to consider them in confidence.   
 
 
  
Appendix 1: Application Submission Process Flow Diagram 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicants fill in form online via Flexi-Grant® 
Both Head of Departments submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
UK Host Organisation’s approver submits 
their approval via Flexi-Grant® 
ROUND CLOSES 
Final submission to the Royal Society 
by deadline 6th September 2017 
 
 
Application is checked for eligibility  
and provision of support from both 
Heads of Department and Nominated 
Referees 
Rejection 
Application enters selection 
process 
AWARDED
Non-
submissions
: Rejection 
Rejection 
ROUND OPENS 
Both Nominated Referees submits their 
support via Flexi-Grant®  
