 
 
GU
A con
ANII. 
 
 
A) Vi
Latin
Euro
Rest
 
1. La 
2. Co
3. Co
 
 
B) Vi
Extra
Salid
 
 
UÍA PARA LA
ntinuación s
iáticos en e
REGIÓN 
noamérica 
opa y Nortea
o del Mundo
escala básic
rresponde a
rresponde a
iáticos en e
CIUDAD 
anjeros en U
das de campo
A PRESUPU
e indica la e
el extranjero
ES
américa 
o 
a es el viátic
 la escala bá
l 75% de la e
l Uruguay 
ruguay 
o 
ESTACIÓN D
escala de viá
o 
CALA BÁSICA
100
160
140
o diario en U
sica 
escala básica
VIÁT
Hasta 30 día
4.000 
 
3.000 
 
DE VIÁTICO
 
áticos máxim
A ANII (1)
H
U$S que cont
a 
TICO POR DÍ
as 
Má
OS PARA PR
mos diarios q
VIÁTI
Hasta 30 día
100 
160 
140 
templa la AN
ÍA ($) 
ás de 31 días
3.000 
2.250 
OYECTOS D
que serán re
ICO POR DÍA
as (2)
Más 
NII 
s 
DE I+D Y BEC
econocidos 
A (U$S) 
de 31 días (3
75 
120 
105 
CAS 
por la 
3) 
  
PAUTA DE HONORARIOS MÁXIMOS RECONOCIBLES DE INVESTIGADORES Y 
PERSONAL TÉCNICO DE APOYO 
Se aplicarán topes a los costos de participación de cada persona en el proyecto en función de:  
 Sus antecedentes.  
 El tiempo que prevé dedicar al proyecto.  
 
1) DEFINICIÓN DE CATEGORÍAS:  
 
Categoría I: Investigador independiente, con capacidad de dirección de grupos de 
investigación.  
Categoría II: Investigador independiente.  
Categoría III: Investigador asistente.  
 
Al formular el proyecto, deberá indicarse a qué categoría pertenece cada miembro del equipo.  
 
Ejemplo: En el caso de la Universidad de la República, se establece la siguiente 
correspondencia con los grados académicos:  
 
Categoría I 
Grado 4 y 5 
Categoría II  
Grado 3 
Categoría III  
Grado 1 y 2 
 
 
2) TOPES DE CATEGORÍA: 
Los montos de los topes incluyen los costos que por todo concepto devengan de la 
contratación de personal (cargas sociales o IVA, aguinaldo, aportes patronales, etc.). De la 
misma forma deben tenerse en cuenta estas erogaciones al calcular los montos 
correspondientes al personal en el presupuesto del proyecto.  
 
CATEGORÍA COSTO MÁXIMO MENSUAL (40 HS/SEMANA)  
 
Categoría I  
$ 114.730 
Categoría II  
$ 84.800 
Categoría III  
$ 66.700 
 
 
3) TOPES POR DEDICACIÓN HORARIA:  
Se podrá subsidiar hasta un máximo de 40 hs. Semanales a cada investigador, sea por uno o 
más proyectos.  
La carga horaria que cada investigador debe dedicar a todas sus actividades incluyendo la 
correspondiente al proyecto presentado no deberá superar las 60 hs. Semanales. 
  
 
 
NATIONAL REGULATIONS OF FUNDING PARTIES 
Applicants will be advised to check with the respective national Call Contact Person the eligibility as 
to who may apply and what costs are eligible before a consortium submits the complete application.  
 
URUGUAY  
Institution 
Agencia Nacional de Investigación e Innovación (ANII) / 
National Research and Innovation Agency 
Country 
Uruguay 
First Name 
Laura  
Surname 
Di Giovanni 
Email 
cooperacion@anii.org.uy 
Telephone number 
(+598) 2 600 44 11 
Initial Funding Commitment 
Euros 180.000 
Tentative number of project partners to 
be funded with the funding commitment      Up to 5 
 
Who can apply? 
The applicants should be research groups that must belong to national institutions public or private 
nonprofit, involved in research and development and/or innovation activities. 
The main researcher and all the researchers of the Uruguayan partner of the project must have their 
CV in CVuy format. 
Each researcher must present a statement of the ongoing projects, with the number of hours of 
each one and the estimated completion date (according to our web model). 
A letter of endorsement shall be submitted from the participating institution (according to our web 
model). 
 
What types of costs are eligible for funding? 
The items that are considered by ANII as fundable for R&D projects are listed below: 
- Materials and supplies 
- Lab equipment and other equipment 
- Consultants 
- Training 
- Services 
- Building adaptation 
- Bibliographic material 
- Software 
- Protection of intellectual property  
  
 
- Promotion and dissemination  
- Administration expenses (up to 5% of the total budget)  
- Contingencies (up to 5% of the total budget)  
- Salaries  
- Technical staff  
- Travel. Only Travel allowance and tickets for the team’s members are eligible for funding and only 
for activities related to the project’s execution or to the presentation of the project’s results.  
- Visiting professors. Travel allowance, tickets and fees are funded. 
 
Upper funding limits for eligible costs? 
The maximum amount of the requested Project required by the Uruguayan partner is up to € 50.000. 
 
Additional national eligibility criteria for the proposal beyond the general criteria in the Call 
Text of the joint call.  
We would not accept applications whose Main Researcher is in a noncompliance situation with any 
ANII´s Program.  
Each project responsible can be responsible and/or co-responsible of up to two R&D projects with 
National funding (ANII, CSIC, INIA, etc.) in simultaneous execution (we will consider the starting 
date of each project)  
Each project responsible and co-responsible can´t have more than 60 hours per week among all the 
activities that executes (including teaching hours and from other public and private jobs) 
 
Call contact point: 
 Laura Di Giovanni 
 
cooperacion@anii.org.uy/ldigiovanni@anii.org.uy 
 
(+598) 2600 44 11 Ext. 231 
 Verónica Suárez 
 
cooperacion@anii.org.uy/ vsuarez@anii.org.uy 
 
(+598) 2600 44 11 Ext. 217 
 
Other Information: 
ANII would like to support 4 areas of interest: 
 
BIOECONOMY / BIOREFINERIES Intermediate and/or High-Added Value Bioproducts 
 
HEALTH Infectious Diseases: Early Detection Research including both, Sreening and Diagno-
sis 
 
ICT:  
- ICT Platform for Learning and Inclusion 
             - ICT for urban sustainability: Nature-Based Solutions, Citizen Science and Systemic Urban   
               Planning 
 
OCEAN ENERGY Development of Technologies for the Energy Valorization of Marine Re-
sources within existing Large Research Infrastructures  
 
 
  
 
1 
 
 
 
ERANet-LAC 3rd Multi-Thematic Joint Call 2017/2018 
involving Research Infrastructures 
 
An initiative supported by the EU-CELAC Interest Group towards the CRA 
 
 
CALL TEXT  
 
 
 
 
 
Proposal Submission Deadline:  
Thursday 8th March 2018 (deadline 15.00 hrs CET) 
 
Websites:  
https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions  
 (for Call Text and National / Regional Funding Regulations and Guidelines for Applicants)  
Link to the partner search tool: https://partnering.pt-dlr.de/eranetlac3  
Link to the CYTED Webtool: http://calleranet-lac.cyted.org 
 
 
 
Contact:  
Marianne Vaske and Sophie von Knebel 
German Aerospace Center, Project Management Agency / America 
 
Tel.: +49 228 3821-1439 (M. Vaske) 
Tel.: +49 228 3821-1628 (S. Knebel) 
 
Fax: +49 228 3821-1400 
 
Marianne.Vaske@dlr.de  
Sophie.Knebeldoeberitz@dlr.de 
 
 
 
 
Applicants must check the national /regional regulations of their funding organizations before they 
submit their proposal (see https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions). 
In case of questions, each participating funding organization has a call contact point for personal 
consultancies. See Annex 3, page 26. 
 
 
 
  
 
2 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
1. Role of EU-CELAC Interest Group: Background for the present EU-CELAC Joint Call .................... 3 
1.1 About the present EU-CELAC Joint Call ....................................................................................... 3 
2. Design of the present EU-CELAC Joint Call .................................................................................... 3 
2.2 Participating countries/regions and Call Topics .................................................................... 4 
2.3 Composition of consortia .................................................................................................. 5 
2.3.1 Consortium Agreement .................................................................................................. 6 
2.4 Allowable costs and duration of funding ............................................................................. 7 
2.5 Call budget and funding principle ....................................................................................... 7 
3. Proposal submission ...................................................................................................................... 7 
4. Proposal evaluation and funding decision .................................................................................... 11 
4.1 Evaluation and Selection Procedure ................................................................................. 11 
4.1.1 Evaluation Procedure .................................................................................................. 11 
4.1.2 
Eligibility Check / Eligible beneficiaries ........................................................................ 12 
4.1.3 Evaluation criteria ....................................................................................................... 13 
4.1.4 Rating Scores ............................................................................................................. 14 
4.2 Priority Ranking through of the Scientific Evaluation Committees ........................................ 14 
4.3 Funding Organizations’ Meeting ...................................................................................... 14 
5. Funding contract ......................................................................................................................... 15 
6. Project implementation and reporting ........................................................................................ 15 
7. Time schedule for the 3rd ERANet-LAC Joint Call ......................................................................... 16 
Annex 1:  Topics for the EU-CELAC Joint Call in the thematic fields of Biodiversity / Climate Change, 
Bioeconomy,  Energy, Health and ICT ............................................................................................. 17 
Annex 2:  Overview of contributions by the participating funding organizations to each topic ........ 25 
Annex 3:  Contact information, Call Contact Persons ....................................................................... 26 
Annex 4: List of National Contact Persons for Energy infrastructures .............................................. 27 
Annex 5: Research Infrastructures ................................................................................................... 28 
 
  
 
3 
1. Role of EU-CELAC Interest Group: Background for the present EU-
CELAC Joint Call 
The ERANet-LAC project (10/2013-12/2017) was funded by the European Commission within the 7th 
Framework Programme for Research and Technology Development (FP7) to strengthen the bi-
regional partnership in Science, Technology and Innovation by planning and implementing concrete 
joint activities and by establishing an innovative and sustainable framework for future bi-regional 
joint activities.  
In the frame of ERANet-LAC, the EU-CELAC Interest Group was constituted, which is a group of 30 
funding agencies from CELAC, EU Member States and Associated Countries wishing to cooperate in 
bi-regional science, technology and innovation (STI) collaboration.  
 
The members of the EU-CELAC IG are launching the present Joint Call in cooperation with ERANet-
LAC. Interested project consortia composed of partners from the countries listed below are invited 
to submit project proposals.  
1.1 About the present EU-CELAC Joint Call 
The aim of the Joint Call is to initiate sustainable and multilateral research cooperation between 
researchers from Europe, Latin-America and the Caribbean countries. 
 
Within the framework of the present EU-CELAC Joint Call, transnational research and innovation 
projects will be funded for a period of up to 36 months. 
 
The goal of the present Joint Call is to create long-term collaboration between EU Member States 
and/or Associated Countries, Latin-American and Caribbean countries by submitting transnational 
calls in research and innovation. 
2. Design of the present EU-CELAC Joint Call 
The design of the present Joint Call is of a flexible nature to ensure that a wide variety of funding 
institutions is able to join the Joint Call – and that as many researchers as possible from European, 
Latin-American and Caribbean countries are eligible for funding. For this reason, each participating 
funding institution will apply its individual national/ regional funding regulations.  
 
Applicants should therefore, before the submission of a proposal, check the national /regional 
regulations of their funding organizations (see https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions). 
Furthermore, they are strongly recommended to contact the National/Regional Call Contact Person (see 
Annex 3, page 26) for guidance.  
  
 
4 
 
2.2 Participating countries/regions and Call Topics 
In total, 23 national/regional funding organizations from 21 countries – 15 from CELAC and 8 from 
Europe - have agreed to participate in the present EU-CELAC Joint Call for funding research and 
innovation projects: 
1. Argentina:  
Ministerio de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación Productiva, MINCYT 
2. Barbados: 
Caribbean Science Foundation, CSF 
3. Belgium:  
Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique, F.R.S.-FNRS  
4. Bolivia: 
Ministerio de Educación - Vice Ministerio de Ciencia y Tecnología, MINEDU 1 
5. Brazil:  
Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Cientifico e Tecnológico, CNPq 
6. Brazil:  
Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo, FAPESP 
7. Chile:  
Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica, CONICYT 
8. Costa Rica:  
Ministerio de Ciencias, Tecnología y Telecomunicaciones, MICITT CONICIT 
9. Cuba: 
Fondo de Financiamiento a la Ciencia y la Innovación, FONCI 
10. Dominican Republic:  
Ministerio de Educación Superior, Ciencia y Tecnología, MESCyT 
11. Ecuador :  
Secretaría de Educación Superior, Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación, SENESCYT 
12. Finland : 
Academy of Finland, AKA, Research Council for Culture and Society 
13. Germany:  
Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung, BMBF 
14. Guatemala: 
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología, CONCYT 
15. Israel: 
Ministry of Health, CSO-MOH 
16. Mexico:  
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología, CONACYT  
 
Secretaría de Energia, SENER 
17. Panama:  
Secretaria Nacional de Ciência, Tecnologia e Innovación, SENACYT 
18. Peru:  
Consejo Nacional de Ciencia Tecnología e Innovación Tecnológica, CONCYTEC 
19. Poland: 
Narodowe Centrum Badań i Rozwoju, NCBR 
20. Spain:  
Agencia Estatal de Investigación- Ministerio de Economía, Industria y  
 
Competitividad, AEI-MINECO 
21. Spain: 
Instituto de Salud Carlos III, ISCIII 
22. Turkey:  
Turkiye Bilimsel vê Teknolojik Arastirma Kurumu, TUBITAK 
23. Uruguay: 
Agencia Nacional de Investigación e Innovación, ANII 
 
Researchers from countries that are not listed above are free to participate in all topics as self-
financed/associated partners (see below 2.3, page 6 for further information on self-
financed/associated partners). 
Proposals must be submitted by transnational consortia. Only researchers based in the countries 
/regions listed below under each of the mentioned topics are eligible for funding through the EU-
CELAC Joint Call. Researchers from other countries / regions may also participate under special 
conditions (see page 6, section 2.3).  
                                                 
 
  
 
5 
The following list shows the list of topics and the countries that are funding each of the topics 
mentioned (see Annex 1, page 17 for full details on the topics): 
 
BIODIVERSITY:  
Observatories’ Network on Biodiversity and Climate Change: Coordinating Data Acquisition and 
Fostering Data Access and Transfer. 
Participating Funding Agencies: Bolivia (MINEDU), Brazil (FAPESP), Costa Rica (MICIT), Cuba (FONCI), 
Dominican Republic (MESCYT), Ecuador (SENESCYT), Germany (BMBF), Guatemala (CONCYT), 
Panama (SENACYT), Peru (CONCYTEC), Poland (NCBR), Spain (MINECO). 
 
BIOECONOMY / BIOREFINERIES 
Intermediate and/or High-Added Value Bioproducts 
Participating Funding Agencies: Bolivia (MINEDU), Brazil (CNPq), Brazil (FAPESP), Cuba (FONCI), 
Dominican Republic (MESCYT), Ecuador (SENESCYT), Germany (BMBF), Guatemala (CONCYT), 
Panama (SENACYT), Peru (CONCYTEC), Poland (NCBR), Turkey (TUBITAK), Uruguay (ANII). 
 
HEALTH 
Infectious Diseases: Early Detection Research including both, Screening and Diagnosis 
Participating Funding Agencies: Belgium (F.R.S. – FNRS), Bolivia (MINEDU), Brazil (CNPq), Brazil 
(FAPESP), Chile (CONICYT), Cuba (FONCI), Dominican Republic (MESCYT), Ecuador (SENESCYT), 
Germany (BMBF), Guatemala (CONCYT), Israel (CSO-MOH), Panama (SENACYT), Peru (CONCYTEC), 
Spain (ISCIII), Turkey (TUBITAK), Uruguay (ANII). 
 
ICT 
ICT Platform for Learning and Inclusion 
Participating Funding Agencies: Barbados (CSF), Bolivia (MINEDU), Brazil (FAPESP), Chile (CONICYT), 
Cuba (FONCI), Dominican Republic (MESCYT), Ecuador (SENESCYT), Finland (AKA), Guatemala 
(CONCYT), Panama (SENACYT), Poland (NCBR),  Turkey (TUBITAK), Uruguay (ANII). 
 
ICT for urban sustainability: Nature-Based Solutions, Citizen Science and Systemic Urban Planning 
Participating Funding Agencies: Argentina (MINCyT), Belgium (F.R.S. – FNRS), Bolivia (MINEDU), 
Brazil (CNPq), Brazil (FAPESP), Chile (CONICYT), Cuba (FONCI), Dominican Republic (MESCYT), 
Ecuador (SENESCYT), Germany (BMBF), Guatemala (CONCYT), Panama (SENACYT), Poland (NCBR),  
Peru (CONCYTEC), Turkey (TUBITAK), Uruguay (ANII). 
 
ENERGY 
Ocean energy: Development of Technologies for the Ecological Energy Valorization of Marine 
Resources within existing Large Research Infrastructures 
Participating Funding Agencies: Argentina (MINCyT), Brazil (FAPESP), Costa Rica (MICIT), Cuba 
(FONCI), Dominican Republic (MESCYT), Ecuador (SENESCYT), Germany (BMBF), Guatemala 
(CONCYT), Mexico (CONACYT), Panama (SENACYT), Peru (CONCYTEC), Spain (MINECO), Uruguay 
(ANII). 
Please note: Participating Large Research Infrastructures are described in Annex 5, page 28. 
  
2.3 Composition of consortia  
Applicants must be eligible for funding according to the regulations of their respective national 
Funding Organizations. They can represent public and private scientific, research, technological and 
innovation institutions on national, federal or EU-LAC regional level, research active industry and 
NGOs and other institutions involved in research activities, as long as they are eligible for funding 
according to the respective national and/or institutional regulations.  
  
 
6 
Only transnational projects will be funded. Each collaborative consortium should have the optimal 
critical mass to achieve ambitious scientific/innovation goals and should clearly show an added value 
from working together.  
 
The following criteria must be taken into account: Each consortium submitting a proposal must 
involve a minimum of four eligible partners from four different countries with at least two 
countries from each region (see the list of funding organizations in section 2.2, page 4 and call 
contact persons in Annex 3, page 26). A maximum number of national partners applying for funding 
will be defined in the institutional rules of each funding organization. 
 
Partners not eligible for funding may also be part of the consortia if they are able to clearly 
demonstrate an added value to the consortium and secure their own funding. However, the 
coordinator and the majority of partners in a consortium must be eligible for the funding 
organizations participating in this Call. The self-financed/associated partners must provide the Call 
Secretariat with a signed official letter of support from their Head of Department or Financial 
Director. A pdf-version of this letter must be included as an annex at the end of the proposal before 
submitting. Self-financed partners cannot assume the role of coordinator of the consortium.  
There should be a principal investigator (PI) for each of the national research groups. Each PI will act 
as contact person for his or her national funders. One of these PIs should be selected through the 
project consortium as coordinator to represent the consortium, submit the proposal, and establish 
any further communication with the Call Secretariat.  
A coordinator must not submit more than one proposal. However, one research institution – as a 
legal entity – is allowed to participate as a coordinator or partner in several project proposals. 
 
NOTE: How to find partners 
The call secretariat supports the identification of partner institutions in Latin America/Caribbean and 
Europe. Under the following link https://partnering.pt-dlr.de/eranetlac3 a partner search tool is 
published to help bringing together interested applicants from countries in both regions.  
All requests will be published in the search tool and made available to all interested institutions 
immediately. 
2.3.1 Consortium Agreement 
Each consortium selected for funding must provide a Consortium Agreement (CA), signed by all 
participants, to clarify the potential Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) matters (such as licensing in, 
licensing out, patents and exploitation strategy). The research consortium is strongly encouraged to 
sign this CA before the official project start. In any case it is requested to send the consortium 
agreement to the Call Secretariat by January 2019 at the latest. 
 Upon request, this consortium agreement must be made available to the concerned funding 
organisations. Please check with the call contact points of the participating countries whether the 
signature of the CA is mandatory before the project starts. 
 
The consortium agreement must be sent to the call secretariat before 31st January 2019. It must 
address (as a minimum), the following points: 
- 
Common start date and duration of the research and / or innovation project 
- 
Organization and management of the project  
- 
Role and responsibilities of each partner resources and funding  
- 
Confidentiality and publishing  
- 
Intellectual Property Rights  
  
 
7 
- 
Decision making within the consortium  
- 
Handling of internal disputes  
- 
The liabilities of the research partners towards one another (including the handling of 
default of contract) 
Any issues regarding funding are a bilateral matter between each project partner and the relevant 
funding organization and should be excluded from the CA. The CA, together with any other 
information required by national regulations, must be made available upon request to the national 
funding agencies. 
Standard documents that can be used as templates and modified according to the specific needs of 
the consortium can be found at: http://www.desca-2020.eu/ . Further instructions will be provided 
by the Call Secretariat to the coordinators of the projects selected for funding 
 
2.4 Allowable costs and duration of funding 
Since funding will be administered according to the terms and conditions of the responsible funding 
organizations, the concrete costs that can be financed through the project may vary for individual 
partners in a given project consortium. It is therefore important to check the national rules of the 
Funding Parties and to contact the respective national Call Contact Person. Both can be found in 
Annex 3, page 26. 
The duration of a project can be up to 36 months (check national regulations). Approved projects 
should start between October 2018 and January 2019. 
2.5 Call budget and funding principle 
The present EU-CELAC Joint Call follows the juste retour principle. It means that the national and 
regional financial contributions to a virtual common pot will be assigned to project partners of the 
respective country and region only, in accordance with national and regional regulations.  
 
The overall budget of the ERANet-LAC Joint Call is the sum of the individual budgets allocated by 
each participating funding institution. If more than one funding institution from a given country 
participates in the Joint Call, the added amount of all institutions from this country is considered as 
the country’s overall Joint Call contribution.  
 
An overview of the contribution from each funding institution to each of the call topics is given in 
Annex  2, page 25.  
 
Some funding institutions may decide to set an upper limit for the budget that can be requested 
per project partner from their country. The upper funding limits may thus vary from one country to 
the other. Applicants should therefore thoroughly check the national and regional regulations 
stipulated at https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions and are strongly recommended to 
contact their National Call Contact Persons (Annex 3, page 26/27) before submitting their proposal. 
  
3. Proposal submission 
Project proposals must be submitted electronically using the CYTED web tool which is accessible 
directly at: http://calleranet-lac.cyted.org and through a link given on the EU-CELAC Platform 
Website: https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions. The only currency to be applied in the 
  
 
8 
proposal is EURO. All proposals must be written in English. The only currency to be applied in the 
proposal is EURO. 
 
The coordinator should fill in the webtool on behalf of the whole consortium and submit the 
proposal. Thus only one online proposal per project is needed. The coordinator must confirm that 
the proposal is endorsed by all project partners by clicking the relevant box in the CYTED webtool. A 
printed version of the proposal should not be sent to the Call Secretariat, but may be required by 
some national funding agencies (see National regulations). 
 
The Online Submission Form is structured in four different fields or pages, each one including various 
sections (described below) to be filled in by the applicants. Additionally, there is a fifth page for 
checking and submitting the proposal. 
 
The applicants may find useful to check the Guidelines for Applicants, available at the following web 
pages: https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions  and http://calleranet-lac.cyted.org. 
 
 
1st page: PROJECT 
The general information of the project is requested on this page. Sections: 
 
 
Section ‘Project data’: in this section, the coordinator must include all the main data of the 
project, such as: Project title, overall costs, project acronym, keywords, etc. All the table 
fields must be filled with the relevant data. 
 
The coordinator must select the topic, among the 6 topics included in the Call, for which the 
consortium wishes to address their proposal to.  
If participating in the “Ocean energy and research infrastructures”, the coordinator must 
select the infrastructure/s in which the research will be carried out. More information 
regarding the participating infrastructures can be found in Annex 5, page 28. 
 
 
Section ‘Executive summary’: Brief text summarizing the aim of the proposal, its specific 
objectives, expected results (research and/or innovation potential, economic benefit, 
commercialization, etc.). Maximum length: ½ page. 
Please note that this Executive summary will not be published. 
 
 
2nd page: PARTNERS 
 
 
Section ‘Partner data’: The following information must be included by partner: 
 
o If the partner is acting as coordinator;   
o Organization/Institution and its Acronym; Center; Department; 
Group/Laboratory/Unit; 
o Group Leader data: First name and Family Name; Title; Position; 
o Members of the group; 
o Address; City; Post code; Country; Telephone; e-mail; Web site; 
 
  
 
 
Section ‘Financial data’: Each participant must include the following information: 
 
o Type of partner (beneficiary or associated/self-financed);  
  
 
9 
o Type of partner (beneficiary or associated/self-financed) 
o Funding agency:  
o Activity type (Higher education, research, industry, SME, others) 
o Total effort (person months) 
o Total costs (€) 
o Total requested funding (€) 
 
 
Section ‘CV and professional experience’: Brief CV of the coordinator and the group leader 
including the five more relevant publications of the last five years. Maximum length: one 
page per partner. 
 
 
 
Section ‘Project costs’: Partners must include the data related with: 
 
o Personnel costs: average monthly salary (€), person-months, total costs (€), 
requested funding (€). 
o Equipment: description, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
o Materials: description, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
o Subcontracting: subcontractor, description, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
o Travel and subsistence costs: description, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
o Other costs: description, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
o Overheads: percentage overheads, total costs (€), requested funding (€). 
 
 
3rd page: TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION 
 
Sections:  
 
 
Publishable summary of the project: For publication purposes. Maximum length ¼ page. 
 
 
Scientific and technological challenge: Applicants are requested to describe the relation and 
relevance of the project to the topic, and the international competitiveness, novelty and 
innovation potential of the proposal. Maximum length 1 page. 
 
 
Technical and scientific description of the project: Applicants are requested to describe the 
state of the art; technical milestones and expected results; methodologies and technologies 
proposed to obtain goals; recent research relevant to the project undertaken by the project 
partners; brief CV of each partner, emphasizing the scientific/technical expertise which is 
crucial for the success of the project. Maximum length: 4 pages. 
 
 
Work plan: Applicants are requested to describe the project structure; individual work 
package description (milestones, deliverables, time schedule) and partners involved; risks 
assessment (including scientific/technology, management and commercial risks); viability 
and feasibility of the proposal, emphasizing the relevant expertise of the partners, and the 
existing and requested resources (equipment, manpower, etc.); monitoring and 
management of the project. Maximum length: 3 pages. 
 
 
Transnational/EU-CELAC related benefit & added value: Applicants are requested to 
describe the relevance of the proposal in terms of transnational cooperation, and 
importance of complementarity of the expertise of EU and CELAC partners; added value of 
the transnational cooperation (e.g. future potential to participate in other transnational 
collaborative activities such as EU Framework Programme, extent of knowledge between 
partners including exchange of personnel, etc.). Maximum length: ½ page. 
  
 
10 
 
Potential for economic impact and applicability and exploitation of results: The following 
aspects will be taken into account: Scientific advantage and potential for economic impact; 
Feasibility; Involvement of stakeholders; Communication and dissemination of results; 
Exploitation and transfer of results; management of intellectual property issues and 
consortium agreements.  Maximum length: 3 pages. 
 
 
Main facilities and equipment: Applicants are requested to describe, if applicable, any 
significant facility or large-scale equipment that is available to the consortium in order to 
fulfil the aims of the project. Maximum length: ½ page. 
 
 
Status of the Consortium Agreement: Applicants are requested to provide a brief outline of 
the Consortium Agreement, including whether it is at the initial or final draft stage, or in the 
process of being signed; and an indication as to the expected date of the agreement 
signature. Maximum length: ½ page. 
 
 
Related proposal submitted to other funding agencies: Applicants are requested to indicate 
whether the project (as a whole or parts of it) has been submitted to other funding agencies. 
If so, please indicate the funding agency, the final outcome, and any potential overlapping 
(complementarity, synergy) with the present proposal. Maximum length: ½ page.  
 
4th page: ANNEX 
 
Any additional information relevant for the proposal can be added here (e.g. technical 
drawings, diagrams, charts, etc.), including the Letter of Commitment of the self-financed / 
associated partners. Documents in pdf, Word and images (.png; .jpg) are admitted. 
 
5th page: SUBMISSION 
 
 
Section ‘Check’: before sending the proposal, it is possible to check the format and 
compliance with the application requirements. This revision is done automatically when the 
complete proposal is submitted but it can also be done at any time during the preparation of 
the proposal. 
 
 
Section ‘Draft’: before submitting the proposal it is possible to generate a .pdf draft in order 
to detect and correct possible mistakes, and to check that all the information required is 
being provided in the proposal. 
 
 
Section ‘Submit’: this section allows the final submission of the proposal. The data will be 
saved and the applicant will be able to generate a .pdf file for saving or printing purposes. 
Once the proposal has been submitted, it is not possible to modify it. 
 
Proposals sent by post, e-mail, fax, telex or facsimile will be rejected. All proposals must be written 
in English. 
 
Once the proposal is submitted the web-tool sends a confirmation by email: 
 
Subject: [EU-CELAC Joint Call 2017/18] Proposal form submitted: Proposal No. XXX 
  
Body of the message: 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
Your application form has been submitted successfully, with reference 
to: Proposal No. XXXX 
  
 
11 
Please find attached the proposal form submitted. 
ERANET-LAC Joint Call Office 
  
Recipients: 
To: email address of the applicant. 
 
Attachments: pdf of the application form 
 
The 
web-tool 
will 
be 
open 
for 
proposal 
submission 
from 
20th 
November 
2017  
15.00 hrs CET to 8th March 2018 (deadline 15.00 hrs Central-European Time). 
 
More information on how to submit a proposal with the online tool can be found in the Guidelines 
for Applicants. 
 
Some funding organizations may ask the applicant to submit a parallel proposal to the funding 
organization in line with the national/regional requirements. This can be done once the joint 
proposal has been submitted to the Call Secretariat or after the joint proposal has been evaluated. 
These additional proposals submitted to the national/regional funding organizations may be 
evaluated or may not be evaluated by the funding organization, according to the rules and 
regulations of the funding organization. For further details about each funding organization’s 
requirements 
with 
regard 
to 
proposal 
submission, 
please 
see 
https://www.eucelac-
platform.eu/joint-actions. 
4. Proposal evaluation and funding decision 
4.1 Evaluation and Selection Procedure 
4.1.1 Evaluation Procedure 
The evaluation process involves four steps:  
1) Eligibility check: Will be realized by the Call Secretariat, in cooperation with the national 
partner representatives.  In addition, the Scientific Evaluation Committee (SEC) will check 
the eligibility considering the matching of the proposals in the scope of the topic. 
2) External written peer review:  Will be done remotely by at least three experts covering the 
specific fields of the research topic(s) addressed in the EU-CELAC Joint Call. Each evaluator 
fills in an individual evaluation form whereby s/he assigns a score to each evaluation item. 
The evaluator also assesses the alignment of the Proposal with the objectives and scope of 
the call.  
3) Ranking of proposals according to the external evaluation results, selection of the best 
proposals and funding recommendations: Will be done by the Scientific Evaluation 
Committees (SECs) in a consensus meeting, organized by the Call Secretariat. Each SEC 
should have at least three experts.  
4) Selection of the proposals recommended for funding: Will be done by the Group of Funding 
Parties Final funding decision, taking into account the evaluations and the budget allocated, 
and all applicable national regulations.  
The Scientific Evaluation Committees will formulate a short consensus report for each proposal 
(strengths and weaknesses) that will be forwarded upon request to the coordinators of the 
proposals after the evaluation and decision taking by the Group of Funding Parties has been 
completed. 
  
 
12 
4.1.2 Eligibility Check / Eligible beneficiaries  
Applicants are strongly advised to contact their National Call Contact Persons in due time before 
submission to check their national eligibility. The list of CCPs is provided in Annex 3 (page 26) and 
also in the national funding regulations of each funding agency (https://www.eucelac-
platform.eu/joint-actions). 
A proposal must: 
 
Conform to the scope and the thematic focus of the call as described in Annex 1 (page 17 ff); 
 
meet the consortium composition requirements as specified on page 6, section 2.3; 
 
comply with the maximum allowed duration (see page 7, section 2.4); 
 
comply with the funding principle as specified (see page 7, 2.5 and National Funding 
Regulations listed at https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/joint-actions. 
 
comply with the terms of the submission procedure as specified in paragraph 3, page 8 ff, 
proposal submission); 
 
be complete according to the rules and in line with the required proposal structure described 
in the Guidelines for Applicants; 
 
be submitted in English; 
 
be submitted electronically using the online tool at http://calleranet-lac.cyted.org (see 
section 3, from page 8); 
 
meet the submission deadline (see pages 1 and 16). 
 
Please note: The Energy topic has additional eligibility criteria as described in Annex 1, page 19/20. 
For the energy topic specific contact persons for research infrastructures are available, see Annex 
3, page 26). Please check details with the contact person of the infrastructure concerned.   
 
Following submission, proposals will be subjected to an eligibility check.  
 
First, the Call Secretariat will check the eligibility of the proposals against the criteria agreed 
by the Group of Funding Parties.  
 
It will then inform the Group of Funding Parties about the results, providing the rationale for 
non-eligibility of individual proposals (if relevant) and ask the members of the GFP to check 
and confirm the eligibility of applicants from their country, according to their national 
regulations (see https://partnering.pt-dlr.de/eranetlac3)  for National Regulations).  
 
The Scientific Evaluation Committees (approved by the GFP and constituted by experts) will 
check the eligibility considering the matching of the proposals in the scope of the topic.  
 
Finally, each Funding Party will approve the list of eligible proposals from its national 
applicants to the Call Secretariat. And the Call Secretariat will inform the Group of Funding 
Parties (GFP) about the results providing the rationale for non-eligibility of individual 
proposals (if relevant). 
Only proposals meeting all the above-mentioned eligibility criteria will be processed by the Call 
Secretariat. Non-eligible proposals will be rejected. The applicants will be informed by the Call 
Secretariat. 
Decisions about eligibility of proposals by the GFP are final. 
  
  
 
13 
4.1.3 Evaluation criteria 
The evaluation procedure will be done according to the criteria defined in the following: 
1. 
Excellence 
Note: The following aspects will be taken into account, to the extent that the proposed work 
corresponds to the topic description:  
 
Clarity and pertinence of the objectives;  
 
Credibility of the proposed approach;  
 
Soundness of the concept, including trans-disciplinary considerations, where relevant;  
 
Extent that proposed work is ambitious, has innovation potential, and is beyond the state of 
the art (e.g. ground-breaking objectives, novel concepts and approaches).  
 
For energy topic  only: Appropriateness of the proposal to the research infrastructure capability 
(evaluators will benefit from the advice and support of experts from the selected research 
infrastructure)  
 
2. 
Impact 
Note: The following aspects will be taken into account, to the extent to which the outputs of the 
project should contribute at the European and/or CELAC International level:  
• The expected impacts listed in the topic description under the relevant topic;  
• Enhancing research and innovation capacity and integration of new knowledge;  
• Any other environmental and socially important impacts;  
• Effectiveness of the proposed measures to exploit and disseminate the project 
results (including management of IPR), to communicate the project, and to manage 
research data where relevant. 
• In case of industry and SME participation: Strengthening the competitiveness and 
growth of companies by developing innovations meeting the needs of global 
markets, and where relevant, by delivering such innovations to the markets 
• Added value for the EU-CELAC cooperation in R&D&I 
 Mobility, networking and training of human resources in both regions.  
 
3.  
Quality and efficiency of the implementation 
Note: The following aspects will be taken into account:  
 Coherence and effectiveness of the work plan, including appropriateness of the 
allocation of tasks and resources;  
 Complementarity of the participants within the consortium (when relevant);  
 Appropriateness of the management structures and procedures, including risk and 
innovation management.  
 For energy topic only: Appropriateness of the proposal to the research infrastructure 
 
4.  
Potential for economic impact and applicability and exploitation of results  
Note: The following aspects will be taken into account:  
 Scientific advantage and potential for economic impact 
 Feasibility  
 Involvement of stakeholders 
 Communication and dissemination of results 
 Exploitation and transfer of results  
 Management of intellectual property issues and consortium agreements;  
 
  
 
14 
4.1.4 Rating Scores  
Each of the mentioned evaluation criteria will be measured through categories and on the  
below 5 - 0 scale. 
EXCELLENT = 5 points 
The proposal successfully addresses all relevant aspects of the criterion. Any shortcomings are 
minor. 
VERY GOOD = 4 points 
The proposal addresses the criterion very well, but a small number of shortcomings are present. 
GOOD = 3 points 
The proposal addresses the criterion well, but a number of shortcomings are present. 
FAIR = 2 points 
The proposal broadly addresses the criterion, but there are significant weaknesses. 
POOR = 1 point 
The criterion is inadequately addressed, or there are serious inherent weaknesses. 
0 points 
The proposal fails to address the criterion or cannot be assessed due to missing or incomplete 
information. 
 
No additional criteria will be used for evaluation and selection of the proposals. 
4.2 Priority Ranking through of the Scientific Evaluation Committees  
The Scientific Evaluation Committees (SECs) approved by the GFP and constituted by experts or 
scientific experts, will rank the proposals based on the online evaluations and internal discussions 
and recommend to the GFP a list of proposals to be funded.  
4.3 Funding Organizations’ Meeting 
The GFP will take the final decision on the proposals to be recommended for funding on a 
consensus basis, based on the recommendations of the Scientific Evaluation Committees. It will 
discuss and approve the recommended projects according to the ranking list and available budget. 
The formal funding decisions are made by the national funding organizations. The funding will be 
administered according to the terms and conditions of the participating national and regional 
funding institutions, taking into account the applicable regulations and available funding. 
All applicants will be informed about the outcomes of the evaluation within one month after the 
funding decision. 
  
 
15 
5. Funding contract 
Following the funding decision, all applicants will be informed by the Call Secretariat about the 
results of the evaluation process and the next steps to be taken. From then, the national phase will 
start in each participating country or region. The project partners of each proposal to be funded will 
conclude an individual funding contract with their respective national/regional funding institution. 
This may mean that partners of a successful proposal will have to submit an additional application to 
their national/ regional funding institution to receive their funding.  
Before the start of the funding, the Call Secretariat will send a fact sheet with ERANet-LAC 
regulations that will apply to all projects participating in the ERANet-LAC Joint Call to all partners of a 
successful project.  
6. Project implementation and reporting  
Each consortium funded in the frame of the present EU-CELAC Joint Call must sign a Consortium 
Agreement listing the rights and responsibilities of each project partner (see page 6f, section 2.3.1). 
Depending on the nature of the funded project, special regulations should be included in the 
Consortium Agreement regarding Intellectual Property Rights. Scientific and technological results 
and any other information derived from the project can be announced, published or commercially 
exploited with the agreement of the partners of the funded projects and according to the 
national/regional regulations as well as international agreements concerning intellectual property 
rights. 
The following regulations will apply to all projects that are funded in the frame of the present EU-
CELAC Joint Call: 
 
In any publication of results, mention must be made of the support received in the frame of 
the ERANet-LAC (“This work was supported by the ERANET-LAC project which has received 
funding from the European Union Seventh Framework Programme”). The ERANet-LAC logo 
and the internet address https://www.eucelac-platform.eu/ should also be shown on the 
publication.  
 
Funding recipients must ensure that all outcomes (publications, etc.) of funded projects 
include a proper acknowledgement of ERANet-LAC and the respective national/regional 
funding partner organizations. 
The coordinators of the funded projects will be requested to send the consortium agreement to the 
EU-CELAC Call Secretariat, latest 31st January 2019.  
Individual reporting to the national/regional funding institutions might be necessary depending on 
national/regional regulations. 
The progress and final results of each individual contract/letter of grant will be monitored by the 
respective national/regional funding organizations. 
  
 
16 
 
7. Time schedule for the 3rd ERANet-LAC Joint Call 
Publication of the Call for Proposals 
Monday, 20th November 2017 
Deadline for proposal submission 
Thursday, 8th March 2018 (15.00 CET) 
Eligibility check: International and 
national as well as technical feasibility 
check of proposals 
Starting with the submission of the proposals, ending 
31st March 2018 
External evaluations  
Starting end of March until 25th May 2018 
Scientific Evaluation Committees’ 
meeting (ranking of proposals) 
Starting end of May until 30th June 2018 
Meeting of funding parties to decide 
which proposals will be funded 
Beginning of September 2018 
Information of applicants about the 
results of the evaluation 
End of September 2018 
Preparation of national/ regional 
funding contracts/funding decisions 
September until November 2018 
Start of projects 
November 2018 – January 2019 
Provision of Consortium Agreement to 
the Call Secretariat 
Before 31st January 2019 
Maximum duration of projects 
36 months 
 
 
 
  
 
17 
Annex 1:  Topics for the EU-CELAC Joint Call in the thematic fields of 
Biodiversity / Climate Change, Bioeconomy, Energy, Health and ICT 
 
BIODIVERSITY / CLIMATE CHANGE 
 
Observatories network on biodiversity and climate change: Coordinating data acquisition 
and fostering data access and transfer 
 
Specific challenge:  
Why is this area relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
One of the major challenges for the bi-regional cooperation on biodiversity and 
climate change is the strengthening of networks of environmental observatories 
so that multi-scale environmental changes can be soundly assessed and 
interpreted. To achieve this goal, there is a strong need for the homogenization 
of survey designs, data collection and statistical analyses at both regional and 
local levels. Studies coupling long-term monitoring and shorter-term studies and 
experiments should be encouraged. Moreover, promoting small research 
projects on database analysis, involving research teams and infrastructures or 
synthesis centers from both regions, is a key component in strengthening the bi-
regional cooperation. This will contribute to facilitating data integration on 
biodiversity and climate change, in line with the recommendations arising from 
international networks and initiatives already operating in this field (IPBES, IPCC, 
GBIF, GEO BON…). 
Scope:  
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
 
The strengthening of environmental data monitoring and further management 
calls for improving interdisciplinary cooperation, which will serve both regions 
by structuring solid research networks. Research in Earth, life and social sciences 
must be integrated for improved modeling development across scales (from 
local to global) and disciplines (from climate physics to anthropology). The 
development of scientific scenarios should be addressed with and 
interdisciplinary approach (interdisciplinary climate-related ecosystems and 
biodiversity vulnerability assessment). Monitoring and understanding of 
extreme events can be better assumed by combining geo-bio-physical analyses, 
such as studies on land-ocean-atmosphere interactions. Data management plan 
and data life cycle analysis (managing the data and making the data available to 
guarantee database life and availability) should be considered. The use of 
existing platforms of information and data would allow avoiding overlaps and 
duplication of efforts. Joint projects are encouraged to include short training 
events (summer schools, specialized training courses) on building databases, 
bioinformatics or data management plans. 
Expected impact for both 
regions:  
 
Implementation of observatories networks will avoid duplicated efforts, raise 
complementary knowledge and strengthen understanding of ongoing changes 
and their impacts. Lessons learned from different disciplines and environments 
would be exploited, thus enabling transfer of knowledge between different 
countries and different ecosystems. Furthermore this will improve the 
connectivity between ecosystems, policies and research fields. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
18 
 
BIO-ECONOMY 
 
Biorefinery: Intermediate and/or high added value bioproducts 
 
Specific challenge:  
 
Why is this topic relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
   
The development of self-sustainable plants with minimum production of 
residues and fossil energy consumption is an important economic and 
environmental challenge. The development of modular units for fractionating 
and valorising similar multi-feedstock residues (agricultural and agro-industrial 
residues, and any organic disposable with good valorisation potential) will 
contribute to the debottlenecking of biorefineries development. 
 
Lignocellulosic biomass feedstock consists mainly of C6 and C5 sugars (cellulose, 
hemi-cellulose) and lignin. This renewable feedstock can be used for the 
production of sugar-based or phenolic-based bulk chemicals. Due to the high 
stability of lignocellulosic material, economically feasible production of bio-
based chemicals is still a major challenge. 
 
Scope:  
 
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
   
Proposals should aim at assessing agro-industrial waste, characterizing and 
evaluating the potential uses of bio-based residues. The call will focus on 
process intensification and development of new technologies that contribute to 
the establishment of self-sustainable biomass processing sites. The development 
of flexible (also multi-feedstock) technologies to be integrated to current 
processing sites is expected. 
 
Proposals should aim at the conversion of C5 and C6 sugars. The evaluation of 
lignin chemistry and conversion, as well as the use of lignocellulosic sources to 
produce chemical building-blocks for the chemical industry, are also important. 
Proposals should include environmental, economic and social sustainability 
assessment along the whole value chain (support activity). 
 
Expected impact for both 
regions:  
    
- 
Valorisation of agricultural and agro-industrial residues  
- 
Energy intensification through efficient integration in a single site 
- 
Environmental benefits at current biomass processing sites 
- 
Assessment of losses in the feed and industrial chain, to help 
establishing regulatory frameworks, 
- 
Development of new biotechnology-based businesses 
- 
Reduced pressure on edible renewable biomass for energy and 
chemicals production  
- 
Reduced dependency on petrochemical products, such as furfural or 
phenol resin.  
- 
New synthesis routes of renewable chemicals 
 
 
 
 
  
 
19 
 
ENERGY 
 
Ocean energy: Development of Technologies for the Ecological Energy Valorization of 
Marine Resources within Existing Large Research Infrastructures. 
 
 
Specific challenge: 
  
Why is this topic relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
 
The fight against global warming should include the development of 
technologies that could provide abundant and CO2 –free energy. In particular, 
marine energy technologies, using available resources over 2/3 of the Earth’s 
surface, are in a starting/medium stage of development. The technological 
options for marine energy resources exploitation are based on the utilization of 
the kinetic energy of sea wave and currents, the potential of tides, and the 
thermal and salty gradients in the ocean surface. The development of those 
technologies require specific infrastructures to test devices in real operation 
conditions, either in the sea for more advances concepts, or into specially 
designed pools able to simulate sea conditions (waves, wind,.etc). This topic will 
contribute to the development of marine energy technologies in the framework 
of a transnational cooperation enabling the utilization of common available 
infrastructures. 
 
Scope:  
 
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
The efforts towards the development of wave, tidal and current, ocean thermal 
and salt gradients energy production devices will be focused on the following 
aspects or subtopics: 
 Validation of computational models in laboratory and field facilities 
(including its application to production evaluation). 
 Material development and/or evaluation for equipment operating in an 
aggressive saline environment. 
 Development 
of 
standard 
environmental 
impact 
evaluation 
methodologies.  
 Offshore and coastal multipurpose devices and multipurpose use. (co-
location, cogeneration). 
 R&D focus on testing of systems, subsystems and components of marine 
renewable energy prototypes.  
 Data collection/evaluation of resources 
 
  
 
20 
Expected impact for both 
regions:  
  
For both regions this offers generation of knowledge highly valuable for both 
regions in scientific, environmental and technology development;  
monitoring and determination of specific sites with the potential for the 
implementation of strategies focused on the harnessing of ocean energy. 
Expected impacts are:  
- 
Reduction of costs for the development of prototypes 
- 
Identification and/or development of suitable materials for marine 
energy devices. 
- 
Harmonization of environmental analysis methods between both 
regions. 
- 
Technology exchange between both regions. 
- 
Open new markets for developers and common marine device 
standardization 
 
Special eligibility 
conditions applicable to 
this topic 
Research and innovation project proposals must include in all cases the use of at 
least one of the large research infrastructures participating in the call. See 
Annex 7 for a description of the infrastructures. 
 
 
Additional information 
 
Link to additional information for the topic 
 
 
  
 
21 
 
HEALTH 
 
Infectious Diseases: Early detection research including both screening and  
Diagnosis 
 
 
Specific challenge:  
Why is this area relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
The design of new techniques to early detection of infections including both 
screening methods and confirmation diagnosis procedures. National and 
international agencies require diagnostic procedures with very high accuracy 
and reliability to detect the microorganism and the disease impact. Otherwise 
they cannot be licensed as clinical diagnostic techniques. 
Scope:  
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
The high morbidity and mortality still associated to many infections are related 
to difficulty for their early detection. Most of patients with risk factors to a 
number of infectious diseases are inappropriate treated since reliable and early 
methods to detect the infection do not exist. 
Expected impact for both 
regions:   
Reduce the overtreatment which generates toxicity and unnecessary expenses, 
and also increasing the likelihood of developing resistance to antimicrobial 
agents. 
Development of diagnosis system for viable but non-cultured pathogens  
Development of diagnosis systems for novel and emerging pathogenic 
microorganisms 
Novel diagnostic approaches using new sequencing and high throughput 
sequencing 
 
  
 
22 
INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES 
(ICT) 
 
ICT platform for Learning and Inclusion 
 
 
Specific challenge:  
Why is this area relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
 
Currently, the world is getting more and more technology-driven and globalized. 
Novel generations create their viewpoints and collect much of their knowledge 
and skills via the internet and social media. It is therefore increasingly important 
to boost the interconnections between learning environments and ICTs. ICT 
plays a key role in the modernization of learning and training. The challenge is 
to revamp the learning ecosystem and better prepare teachers for the digital 
age. Collaboration between stakeholders (public, private, entrepreneur, 
innovators, and academia) leads to crucial innovative practices motivating the 
learning and teaching experiences that facilitate the learning and training 
lifecycle that embraces the current technology challenges and enables the 
uptake of ICTs skills for better employment. 
Scope:  
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
 
The topic “ICT platform for Learning and Inclusion” was included among the top 
10 priorities for EU-LAC cooperation on R&I by a survey carried out within the 
context of the FP7-funded project “LEADERSHIP”. Based on the findings of this 
survey (answered by 523 relevant stakeholders) it was detected that priorities 
of common interest exist in Latin America for ICT R&I, and these priorities are 
aligned with the European R&I priorities defined in Horizon 2020.This creates a 
solid basis for future cooperation between Europe and Latin America in ICT R&I. 
Multimedia systems that make use of different senses can support teaching and 
learning in both regions. The adoption of new methods may be enhanced by 
new technological and content-related tools and forms of embodied education 
and training. 
Expected impact for both 
regions:   
The action will raise awareness and impact on an extensive participation of 
citizens having a rather weak access to the uptake of innovative technologies 
involved in education, training and inclusion: the elderly, unemployed, migrants, 
disabilities, homeless, or people living in remote or poorer areas. 
EU-CELAC cooperation in this area may gain more in-depth research data about 
the mechanisms, preconditions, opportunities and threats to knowledge, skills 
and competencies through ICTs. 
Note:  
The topic encourages projects based on interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary 
co-operation between disciplines. It integrates engineering research to social 
sciences and humanities research. 
  
 
23 
 
ICT for urban sustainability: Nature-based Solutions, citizen science and systemic urban 
planning 
 
Specific challenge:  
Why is this area relevant 
and which societal 
challenges does it address? 
Over 80% of LAC people live in urban areas, requiring understanding of 
challenges cities face. Urban challenges such as sustainable urbanization, 
climate change adaptation and mitigation, disaster risk reduction, well-being 
and health, or social equality, could offer a unique opportunity to shape an 
emerging global bi-regional dialogue on best practices on urban development, 
which cuts across many sectors.  
Research and innovation can provide the necessary knowledge and evidence 
base to develop and adopt innovative solutions to address the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). EU urban R&I focuses on cities as actors of open 
innovation for urban regeneration, circular economy, health and climate 
resilience, including through Nature-based Solutions.  
Nature-based Solutions (NBS) are living solutions inspired and supported by 
nature that can address in a cost-effective way a series of social, environmental 
and economic challenges. This multiple benefit character of NBS can be 
especially useful in fast growing, densely populated cities. R&I on NBS is 
currently being developed at EU-level with specific Horizon2020 calls and the 
selected projects will contribute to the knowledge and evidence base for NBS 
and hence to the uptake and upscale of these solutions in the EU and 
elsewhere.  
NBS need supporting tools for their co-creation, implementation and 
monitoring. ICT enabling-tools for Nature-based Solutions, citizen science and 
systemic urban planning would neatly complement the ongoing H2020 projects 
and the ones arising from the new H2020 calls on NBS (2018-2020).  
The idea of 'digitally enabled' nature seems key to the deployment of NBS in the 
EU - through new technologies for data monitoring, new data 
exploration/extraction techniques, and forms of citizen science are certainly key 
features. Co-creation platforms including decision tools (simulation, 
visualization/virtualization, open data/information platforms) and living labs 
enable to increase awareness and inhabitants’ involvement in NBS co-creation, 
implementation and monitoring. 
  
 
24 
Scope:  
Added value gained from 
EU-CELAC cooperation for 
both regions 
R&I will develop and implement innovative ICT tools for NBS around three main 
areas: 
1. Stakeholder involvement (co-creation of NBS) and knowledge dissemination;   
2. Design and implementation of NBS:  the development of tools that could be 
useful for the design of specific NBS according to the context and the scale of 
implementation; for quantifying ecosystem functions and services; for providing 
economic valuation; or examining ecosystem services trade-offs.   
3. Evaluation of the effectiveness of NBS performance: monitoring schemes and 
dissemination of results.  
ICT tools can contribute to these three main areas through a diverse set of 
approaches. These could include geo-mapping, e-participation and direct 
democracy; analytics and visualisation; open data integration; citizen science 
(e.g. monitoring of environment); collective assessment or crowdsourcing. 
Pilots or test beds shall be applied in both regions and increase contributions to 
the state of the art, develop smart cities technologies and support the 
generation of a bi-regional community for best practices in NBS. 
Expected impact for both 
regions:   
A bi-regional cooperation on ICT tools for NBS will support the ongoing R&I on 
NBS and the further implementation and mainstreaming of NBS in the EU and 
LAC.  
Expected impacts are: increased social, economic and environmental 
sustainability of cities through innovative NBS; more citizen participation in 
urban sustainability governance; enhanced human capital for innovation; more 
ICT-based business opportunities; proposed viable solutions across different 
urban settings. 
 
  
 
25 
Annex 2:  Overview of contributions by the participating funding organizations to each topic  
Country 
Funding 
Agency 
Observatories' 
network on 
biodiversity and 
climate change:  
Biorefinery: 
Intermediate and/or 
high added value 
bioproducts 
Ocean energy / research 
infrastructures 
ICT platform for 
Learning and 
Inclusion 
ICT for urban 
sustainability:  
Infectious diseases 
 Total  
Argentina 
MINCYT 
  
  
100.000 
  
50.000 
  
150.000 € 
Barbados 
CSF 
  
  
  
10.000 
  
  
10.000 € 
Belgium 
F.R.S.-FNRS 
  
  
  
  
yes 
yes 
200.000 € 
Bolivia 
MINEDU 
yes 
yes 
  
yes 
yes 
yes 
See footnote page 4 
Brazil 
CNPq 
  
100.000 
  
  
100.000 
100.000 
300.000 € 
Brazil 
FAPESP 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
400.000 € 
Chile 
CONICYT 
  
  
  
yes 
yes 
yes 
up to 80K p. project 
Costa Rica 
MICIT 
100.000 
  
100.000 
  
  
  
200.000 € 
Cuba 
FONCI 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
34.000 € 
Dom. Rep.  
MESCYT 
75.000 
100.000 
75.000 
100.000 
75.000 
150.000 
575.000 € 
Ecuador SENESCYT 
yes  
yes  
yes  
yes  
 yes 
yes  
500.000 € 
Finland 
AKA 
  
 
 
500.000 
  
  
 500.000 € 
Germany 
DLR/BMBF 
yes 
yes 
yes 
  
yes 
yes 
1.500.000 € 
Guatemala 
CONCYT 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
yes 
380.000 € 
Israel 
CSO-MOH 
  
  
  
  
  
up to 300.000 
300.000 € 
Mexico 
CONACYT 
  
  
up to 500.000 
  
  
  
500.000 €  
Panama 
SENACYT 
50.000 
50.000 
50.000 
50.000 
50.000 
50.000 
400.000 € 
Peru CONCYTEC 
100.000 
100.000 
100.000 
  
100.000 
100.000 
500.000 € 
Poland 
NCBR 
160.000 
160.000 
  
160.000 
160.000 
  
640.000 € 
Spain 
ISCIII 
 
 
 
 
 
250.000 
250.000 
Spain 
MINECO 
150.000 
  
500.000 
  
  
  
650.000 € 
Turkey  
TUBITAK 
  
yes 
  
yes 
yes 
yes 
2.000.000 €  
Uruguay 
ANII 
  
50.000 
30.000 
Total 50000 
50.000 
180.000 € 
  
 
26 
Annex 3:  Contact information, Call Contact Persons  
 
The ERANet-LAC Call Secretariat (CS – see contact data on page 27) is entrusted with the overall 
operational management of the present EU-CELAC Joint Call. It is the general contact point for first 
questions related to the Joint Call, the application process and the use of the CYTED webtools. 
The Call Contact Persons (CCPs) are located in each country which participates in the present Joint 
Call. One of their main tasks is to advise the potential applicants from their countries/regions on the 
applicable national/regional regulations during the proposal submission process. 
 
CALL CONTACT PERSONS  
Argentina 
MINCyT 
Alejandra Davidziuk 
madavidziuk@mincyt.gob.ar 
Agustina Velo 
avelo@mincyt.gob.ar 
0054 11 4899 5000 (ext 4150) 
Barbados 
CSF 
Cardinal Warde 
warde.csf@gmail.com  
Tel: +1-617-699-1281 
Belgium 
F.R.S.-FNRS 
Joël Groeneveld 
joel.groeneveld@frs-fnrs.be 
Tel: +32 (0) 2504 9270 
Bolivia 
MINEDU 
Mauricio Céspedes 
wmauriciohcq@hotmail.com 
Tel: 00591 7011 7444 
Brazil 
CNPq 
Lelio Fellows Filho 
leliof@cnpq.br 
Tel: 0055 61 3211 9247 
Brazil 
FAPESP 
Glenda Mezarobba 
Glenda@fapesp.br 
Tel: (11) 3838 4191 
Chile 
CONICYT 
Pedro Figueroa 
pfigueroa@conicyt.cl 
Costa Rica 
MICIT 
Federico Torres 
federico.torres@micit.go.cr 
Tel: 00506 2539-2201 
Cuba 
FONCI 
Armando Rodríguez 
Batista 
armando@citma.gob.cu  
Tel: 0053 78 32 0131 
Dom. Republic 
MESCYT 
Lizbeth Mieses, Katia 
Krispin 
pgomezramirez@gmail.com; 
lmieses@mescyt.gob.do; 
crisva@gmail.com 
Ecuador 
SENESCYT 
Jorge Andrés Pinto 
Landeta 
jpinto@senescyt.gob.ec 
Tel.: +(593 2) 2903249 
Finland 
AKA 
Satu Huuha-Cissokho  
 
satu.huuha-cissokho@aka.fi 
Tel: +358 295 33 5075 
Riitta Launonen 
 
riitta.launonen@aka.fi 
Tel. +358 295 33 5059 
Germany 
BMBF / DLR 
Marianne Vaske  
Marianne.vaske@dlr.de 
Tel: +49 228 3821-1439 
Sophie von Knebel 
Sophie.KnebelDoeberitz@dlr.de 
Tel: +49 228/38 21-1628 
Guatemala 
CONCYT 
Dora Fuentes 
Imonterroso@concyt.gob.gt 
Tel: +502 2317 2600 ext. 125 
Israel 
CSO-MOH 
Ayelet Zamir 
ayelet.zamir@MOH.GOV.IL 
Tel: +972-2-5082168 
Mexico 
CONACYT 
Moira Karosuo 
mkarosuo@conacyt.mx 
(+52 55) 5322 7700 Exts. 1763, 1737 & 
1764 
Panama 
SENACYT 
Carlos Aguirre 
caguirre@senacyt.gob.pa 
Tel: +507 517 0064 
Peru 
CONCYTEC 
Pamela Antonioli 
convocatorias@cienciactiva.gob.pe Tel: 
+51 644-0004 
Poland 
NCBR 
Ewelina Wildner 
ewelina.wildner@ncbr.gov.plTel:  
  
 
27 
Tel: +48 22 39 07 123 
Spain 
ISCIII 
Dori Campo 
doricampo@isciii.es 
Tel: + 34 91 822 2489 
Spain 
MINECO 
Juan Climent 
 
eranetlac@aei.gob.es 
juan.climent@aei.gob.es  
+34 91 603 7242 
Turkey 
TUBITAK 
Oguz Ozkan 
 
oguz.ozkan@tubitak.gov.tr / 
uidb@tubitak.gov.tr 
0090 312 298 1774 
Uruguay 
ANII 
Verónica Suarez 
vsuarez@anii.org.uy 
cooperacion@anii.org.uy/  
Tel: +598) 26004411 / 217 
Laura Di Giovanni  
  
cooperacion@anii.org.uy/ 
ldigiovanni@anii.org.uy  
Tel: +598) 2600 44 11 Ext. 231 
 
 
Annex 4: List of National Contact Persons for Energy infrastructures 
 
Research 
Infrastructure 
Contact person 
Country 
e-mail 
 
Environmental 
Hydraulics Institute of 
Cantabria 
"IHCantabria" 
 
 
Álvaro Álvarez  
 
 
Spain 
alvaro.alvarez@unican.es  
PLOCAN 
Javier González Herrera 
Marimar Villagarcía   
Spain 
javier.gonzalez@plocan.eu 
marimar.villagarcia@plocan.eu 
Wave Flume  del 
Instituto de Mecánica 
de Fluidos e Ingeniería 
Ambiental de 
Universidad de la 
Republica 
 
Luis Teixeira 
  
 
 
Uruguay 
 
luistei@fing.edu.uy 
 
CALL SECRETARIAT 
 
Spain 
CYTED 
Almudena Carrero; 
Laura Bonora 
calleranet-lac@cyted.org 
+34 91 603 7986 
+34 91 603 7565 
 
  
 
28 
Annex 5: Research Infrastructures 
 
I. 
PLOCAN RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE: HOSTING FOR TESTING / OPERATION OF MARINE 
TECHNOLOGIES 
The Oceanic Platform of the Canary Islands (PLOCAN) is a joint initiative between the Spanish and 
the Canary Islands governments, with the support of the European Regional Development Fund.  
 
PLOCAN is a multipurpose service centre with land-based and sea-based unique infrastructures to 
support and accelerate research, technology development an innovation in the marine and maritime 
sector. Its mission is to provide excellence facilities and services to explore and test science and 
technology concepts and prototypes in coastal and oceanic environments, providing a cost-effective 
combination of services, such as observatories, test site, base for underwater vehicles, training and 
innovation hub.  PLOCAN makes available for the “Joint Bi-Regional Pilot Call on Ocean Energy and 
Research Infrastructures” its infrastructures, equipment and services including hosting and testing, 
operation and maintenance, training and consultancy for novel marine technologies and prototypes. 
E.g. PLOCAN provides sea-based and land-based infrastructures to host offshore renewable energy 
devices interested to come to the Canary Islands to learn, design and/or carry out any field test 
experiments, including technological, environmental, social and economic aspects. PLOCAN offers an 
integrated service to push forward marine technologies from TRL4 up to TRL8.  Examples of PLOCAN 
services are:  
  
1. MARINE RESERVE: 23 km2 with a bathymetry ranging from 0 to 600 meters. PLOCAN has 
delegated competences in this area from the National Authorities of Spain and, therefore, can 
facilitate and speed up the processes for permissions and authorizations for marine technology 
tests/operations.  
 
2. FORECASTING MODELLING & ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING SERVICES: PLOCAN Marine 
reserve has been extensively studied and real or almost real-time measurements are taken 
periodically to provide a standardized 3 days forecasting assessment for key parameters for 
Ocean Energy such us: wave direction, height and frequency and currents and Wind intensity and 
direction.  In addition, PLOCAN marine reserve provides the measurement of key oceanographic 
parameters of the sea water including: temperature, salinity, oxygen, turbidity and chlorophyll; 
meteorological parameters such us: pressure, air temperature, relative humidity, rainfall and PAR 
(Radiation). The subsea passive acoustics noise can be also measured by PLOCAN on demand.   
 
3. SUBMARINE ELECTRICITY AND COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE (ECI): A hybrid cable with 
the capacity to evacuate up to 5 MW of electricity is available for demonstrations. Furthermore, 
the data transmission of crucial performance indicators of the marine devices can be also 
transmitted to land throw this cable via fiber optic. The ECI is directly connected to a land 
substation that allows the flow of the generated power to the Island main electrical grid. In 
addition a SCADA systems is also installed on land to control and register crucial performance 
indicators that can be transmitted and assess on PLOCAN Land-base facilities. 
  
 
4. THE OCEANIC PLATFORM: a fixed offshore platform located, at the same time, close to the 
coast and near of the edge of the continental shelf, in shallow waters (30 m depth) is also 
  
 
29 
available to conduct complementary assays and/or explore multipurpose/co-location solutions. 
The Platform has a net surface of 2,500 m2 of research capacity, space for laboratories, 
instrumented containers and capacity to accommodate permanently researchers distributed in a 
multi-storey building with a main dock of 1,000 m2. 
 
5. LOGISTIC SUPPORT: Based on its field work experience and its stakeholder network, PLOCAN 
put at disposal of its users logistical support in conducting the experiment. This includes transport 
of the device from origin to Gran Canaria, interaction with Port authorities for installation, 
deployment, 
maintenance, 
decommissioning, 
operations, 
permissions/authorization 
management and others that may be necessary to successfully test the prototypes. 
 
6. AUTONOMOUS VEHICLES FLEET: the infrastructure is equipped with cutting-edge marine 
autonomous vehicles both underwater (AUVs) and surface vehicles (ASVs) and well with a 
Remote Operating Vehicles that can be used if necessary for monitoring, inspection or control 
activities.   
 
7. LAND-SEA BIDIRECTIONAL COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE: Besides the ECI that allows 
submarine communication between PLOCAN Marine test site and its land base, a wide range of 
modern and traditional sea-land communication infrastructure are available for researchers 
based at PLOCAN. This includes among others: the main satellite communications (ARGOS, 
IMARSAT, IRIDIUM), Wi-FI, Tetra System and Marine Band. All data transmitted can be stored and 
processed using the PLOCAN Data Processing Centre. 
 
8. LAND-BASED FACILITIES: Researchers coming to PLOCAN may request land base facilities 
access while their stay at the infrastructure. These facilities include among other: full equipped 
and connected office spaces, specialized labs and garages for maintenance/reparation, 
demonstration room, meeting rooms and conference rooms.  
  
BASIC MARINE TEST SITE DATA  
 
AREA: 23 Km2  
BATHYMETRY: 0 – 600 m (deeper if needed)  
GEOLOGY: Deeply studied. The parameters available for the test site area comprises: size, plasticity, 
humidity, density, porosity and organic matter. Sea bottom of the test site is composed mainly by 
different types of sand and some scattered rocky sectors. 
ANNUAL AVERAGE WIND SPEED (80 M height): 23,3 -25,3 km/h; 6,5 – 7 m/s  
ANNUAL AVERAGE WIND POWER DENSITY (80 m height): 300 – 400 w/m2; approx. 3000 hrs/yr   
CURRENT VELOCITY: An average of 170 ± 145 mm/s  
AVERAGE WAVE HIGH: 1,05 m (Time series from 1992 – 2014)  
AVERAGE WAVE PERIOD: 5,21 s (Time series from 1992 – 2014)  
AVERAGE WAVE FREQUENCY : 8, 16 s (Time series from 1992 – 2014) 
AVERAGE WAVE POWER (KW):7,2 (3rdQuartile); 5,5 (mean); 6,0 (St. deviation); 3,7 (median)  
SURFACE TEMPERATURE RANGE: 18 -24 °C  SURFACE SALINITY RANGE: 36,60 – 36,95  
 
 
  
 
30 
II. 
 IH CANTABRIA INSTITUTO DE HIDRÁULICA AMBIENTAL DE LA UNIVERSIDAD DE 
CANTABRIA.  
  
The Environmental Hydraulics Institute is a joint research center that carries out research, 
knowledge transfer and training of specialists in the fields of fresh and saltwater. This work has 
allowed IH Cantabria to be at the forefront of national and international organizations working in 
marine renewables. At IH Cantabria there are over 140 researchers and the center has over thirty 
years of experience. 
IH Cantabria is developing basic and applied research for the study marine renewable energies 
throughout projects and collaboration with other research centres, administration and industrial and 
engineering firms. Floating and fixed offshore wind and wave concepts analysis design and 
simulation have been one of the major topics thanks to in-house models and methodologies 
supported by a large-scale tests facility (CCOB). During the last ten years, IH Cantabria, has actively 
participated on more than 60 projects. It also has an extended scientific network with European and 
American Universities. Based on a continuous R&D process, over the last years IH Cantabria has 
generated significant scientific contributions to wave energy converters modeling, as well as, wind 
industry modeling and testing. From the governmental perspective, IH Cantabria has collaborated 
with different government levels and one for the most important examples is the Spanish wave 
energy resource atlas designed and created by IH Cantabria. 
The Cantabria Coastal and Ocean Basin is a combination of three integrated systems to be used in 
the applied research of coastal and offshore engineering: experimental, numerical and physical 
modelling system. 
The main goal of the physical modelling system is to carry out testing to measure hydrodynamic and 
wave-structure interaction processes, which can include the sediment transport effects, the effects 
of tsunamis and the wave-current and wave-wind interaction. The physical modelling system also 
includes a wave/current flume able to generate waves, including long-waves such as tsunamis, and 
following or opposing currents, as well as a large open-area reserve for physical modelling of 
undefined boundary studies, such as river meanders, estuaries and ports. 
 
Main characteristics: 
 
Length: 30m 
 
Width: 44m 
 
Maximum depth: 3.4 m 
 
Minimum depth: 0.2 m 
 
Maximum available testing area: 760 m2 
 
Wave generation: Segmented system formed by 64 independent wave paddles (0.5m wide 
and 4.5 m high). Each one is triggered by two articulated arms and a vertical connecting rod. 
Full 3D active wave absorption. Passive wave absorbers around the full perimeter. Non-
linear wave generation, and second order long-wave generation. Lateral panels for 
directional wave generation with virtual paddles (corner reflection method, increases the 
width of the wave machine) 
 
Current generator: 12 thrusters, 900 mm in diameter and 25 kW/thruster 
 
Wind generator: Group of 9 computer controlled wind fans mounted on a closed portable 
and variable height frame with a wind stabilization system and funnel. 
 
Hardware in the loop: Advanced systems for the simulation of aerodynamic performance of 
small to large wind turbines at laboratory scale including, transient winds, as well as turbine 
control systems. 
  
 
31 
Applications 
CCOB applications include marine hydrodynamics, flow-structure interaction, offshore technology, 
safety and reliability of marine structures, offshore platforms, marine renewable energy, floating 
structures, marine geotechnics, materials engineering for marine environment, design of submarine 
vehicles, design of oceanographic instrumentation, analysis of constructive systems in the marine 
environment. 
 
 
III. 
WAVE FLUME. INSTITUTO DE MECÁNICA DE FLUIDOS E INGENIERÍA AMBIENTAL DE 
UNIVERSIDAD DE LA REPUBLICA.  URUGUAY 
Wave flume has a large canal of 70 m length, 1.5 m wide and 1.8 m height with a piston type wave 
maker manufactured by VTI, equipped with the AwaSys software from Aalborg University for wave 
generation and dynamic absorption. The wave maker can generate waves of up to 0.6 m heigh and 2 
s period with 1.2 m water depth. 
 
Measuring equipment: 
7 Akamina Wave Height Gauges  
1 Nortek Vectrino acoustic velocimeter to measure 3D water velocity 
1 Met-Flow UVP-DUO for 1D velocity profiling 
Several Honeywell pressure gauges 
 
  
POLÍTICA DE PRIVACIDAD Y TÉRMINOS DE USO DE LA AGENCIA NACIONAL DE  INVESTIGACIÓN E 
INNOVACIÓN  
1. INTRODUCCIÓN  
La Agencia Nacional de Investigación e Innovación (ANII), persona pública no estatal, tiene dentro de 
sus principales objetivos (Ley 18.084): A) Preparar, organizar y administrar instrumentos y 
programas para la promoción y el fomento del desarrollo científico-tecnológico y la  innovación, de 
acuerdo con los lineamientos político-estratégicos y las prioridades del Poder Ejecutivo; B) Promover 
la articulación y coordinación de las acciones de los actores públicos y privados involucrados, en 
sentido amplio, en la creación y utilización de conocimientos, de modo de potenciar las sinergias 
entre  ellos y aprovechar al máximo los recursos disponibles; C) Contribuir, de forma coordinada con 
otros organismos del Sistema Nacional de Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación, al desarrollo de 
mecanismos efectivos de evaluación y seguimiento de programas y demás instrumentos de 
promoción en la materia. Este sistema de evaluación se constituirá en un insumo central para el 
diseño de incentivos a los agentes públicos y privados que participen. 
En el marco de sus cometidos ofrece los siguientes servicios (en adelante Servicios), sin perjuicio de 
otros que puedan surgir en el futuro: 
● Recursos financieros para proyectos de investigación, becas de posgrados nacionales e 
internacionales y programas de incentivo a la cultura innovadora y del emprendedurismo, 
tanto en el sector privado como público.  
● Sistema Nacional de Investigadores (S.N.I), un programa que promueve, mediante 
evaluación periódica, la categorización y el incentivo económico de los investigadores, la 
producción de conocimiento, transversal a todas las áreas, y el fortalecimiento y la 
expansión de la comunidad científica nacional. La postulación para el ingreso al S.N.I. implica 
el consentimiento del postulante para que su currículum vitae pueda ser publicado. 
● CVUY una plataforma de CV´s reconocida a nivel nacional y regional que contribuye al 
mantenimiento y actualización permanente de información validada, acerca de las 
capacidades del capital humano del Uruguay. 
● PRISMA un portal en el que se puede acceder de manera dinámica y ágil a los indicadores 
nacionales más relevantes sobre Ciencia, Tecnología e Innovación. 
● Portal Timbó que permite el acceso gratuito a todo tipo de publicaciones científicas de todo 
el mundo para todos los uruguayos.  
● TRAMA red de encuentro entre emprendedores, investigadores, empresarios, inversores y 
talentos de Uruguay para despegar. 
● Timbó FOCO un portal que da acceso gratuito a bibliografía y literatura científica-tecnológica 
mundial 
● Timbó BIBLO es una plataforma que ofrece acceso a libros universitarios de grado y a otros 
recursos digitales a estudiantes y docentes uruguayos 
● REDI es el repositorio de acceso abierto de la ANII. Reúne artículos, tesis de posgrado, 
presentaciones en eventos académicos, libros y cualquier otra obra generada en el marco de 
proyectos financiados total o parcialmente por ANII. 
● Registro de Equipamiento Científico es un catálogo de equipos científicos disponibles en 
Uruguay. 
  
La utilización de los Servicios supone haber leído esta Política de Privacidad y Términos de Uso, y 
consentir que ANII integre la información personal a sus bases de datos y realice su tratamiento de 
acuerdo con los fines definidos.  
Tratándose de menores de dieciocho años de edad, debe contar con la autorización de sus padres 
tutores o curadores, quienes prestan su consentimiento en representación del menor, reservándose 
la ANII el derecho de solicitar su ratificación por escrito, de considerarlo pertinente. 
2. TRATAMIENTO DE DATOS  
Los datos personales recabados y accedidos por ANII serán tratados con la finalidad de realizar  los 
procesos necesarios para dar cumplimiento a los objetivos y cometidos de la Agencia y de los  
Servicios y sistemas específicos, de conformidad con la Ley Nº 18.331, de 11 de agosto de 2008, de 
Protección de Datos Personales y Acción de Habeas Data y Decreto Nº 414/2009, de 31 de agosto de 
2009. 
Los datos personales recabados en el marco del acceso y la utilización de los Servicios serán objeto 
de tratamiento e incorporados a una base de datos titularidad de ANII, con domicilio en Av. Italia 
6201, Edificio Los Nogales, Montevideo, inscripta ante la Unidad Reguladora y de Control de Datos 
Personales del Uruguay. Los mismos serán alojados en servidores contratados por ANII y situados en 
territorio nacional, así como en servidores situados en países considerados con estándares 
adecuados para la protección de datos conforme con la normativa vigente.   
ANII en su calidad de responsable de tratamiento, podrá acceder a los datos proporcionados y 
actividades realizadas en el uso de los Servicios. 
3. FINALIDAD 
Los datos personales recabados en el marco del uso de los Servicios serán tratados con la finalidad 
de administración, gestión, monitoreo y mejora de los Servicios, en cumplimiento de los cometidos 
legales y reglamentarios asignados a la Agencia. 
4. SEGURIDAD, CONFIDENCIALIDAD Y COMUNICACIÓN  
ANII se obliga a guardar reserva sobre los datos proporcionados y accedidos, salvo consentimiento 
del titular, solicitud de una autoridad competente o cuando se encuentre legalmente obligado a 
divulgarla. Sus funcionarios están obligados a guardar la debida reserva de  la información a la cual 
acceden, conforme a los procedimientos vigentes de la Institución, y al artículo 11 de la Ley N° 
18.331. 
ANII tomará todas las medidas de seguridad necesarias para evitar la adulteración, pérdida, consulta 
o tratamiento no autorizado de la información que trata en su calidad de administrador responsable 
de tratamiento. 
Los datos proporcionados serán compartidos con terceros encargados de tratamiento, quienes 
deberán mantener iguales o superiores estándares de seguridad y protección de datos personales 
que los tenidos por ANII. 
5. CONSERVACIÓN DE LOS DATOS  
  
Los datos personales serán tratados por ANII para cumplir con la finalidad antes referida, luego  
serán eliminados o se guardarán bloqueados para ser accedidos únicamente en los casos previstos  
por las normas aplicables, durante el tiempo necesario para atender prescripciones legales.  
6. OBLIGACIONES SOBRE LA VERACIDAD DE LA INFORMACIÓN  
Toda la información que los titulares de los datos proporcionen a ANII deberá ser veraz, exacta  y 
comprobable.   
A tales efectos, el titular de los datos garantiza la autenticidad de todos los datos proporcionados y 
se compromete a su actualización, responsabilizándose de todos los daños que se deriven de 
cualquier inexactitud, sea que la sufra el propio titular de los datos, ANII o cualquier  tercero, 
incluyendo cualquier entidad pública estatal o no estatal.  
Los titulares de los datos se obligan a comunicar inmediatamente para su corrección cualquier  
discrepancia o error evidenciado en la información registrada en las bases de datos de la Agencia y  
disponible a terceros dentro de las disposiciones de la presente Política y/o de los términos y  
condiciones específicas aplicables a la base de datos.  
7. OTRAS OBLIGACIONES DE LOS TITULARES DE DATOS QUE UTILICEN SERVICIOS DE ANII  
Los titulares de los datos se obligan a no utilizar los Servicios puestos a disposición por ANII con fines 
o efectos ilícitos, prohibidos en las Bases o normas jurídicas, lesivos de los derechos e intereses de la 
ANII, de otros usuarios o de terceros, o que de cualquier forma puedan dañar, inutilizar, sobrecargar, 
deteriorar o impedir su normal uso.   
En igual sentido, los titulares de los datos se obligan a no utilizar los Servicios  puestos a disposición 
por ANII con el fin de divulgar información que estimule la  discriminación o la violencia o que viole 
los derechos de terceros, incluyendo el derecho  de propiedad intelectual.  
8. CONTRASEÑA Y SEGURIDAD  
En el caso que el uso de Servicios requiera el uso de contraseñas, será  exclusiva responsabilidad del 
usuario titular de los datos la seguridad y confidencialidad de su  contraseña.  
La ANII no será responsable de ningún cambio y/o errores introducidos en los sistemas de ANII  
derivados del accionar del propio usuario, así como de terceros no autorizados. 
 
9. AUSENCIA DE RETRIBUCIÓN  
Los titulares de los datos personales no tendrán derecho a recibir retribución u honorario de especie 
alguna como consecuencia del uso de los datos que la ANII u otra institución autorizada haga en 
cualquier momento en el ámbito  de sus competencias, de acuerdo a los términos previstos en esta 
política y/o en los términos y  condiciones específicos que puedan aplicar, según corresponda.   
10. PROPIEDAD INTELECTUAL  
Todas las marcas, nombres comerciales o signos distintivos de cualquier clase que  eventualmente 
aparezcan en el sitio web y/o en los sistemas de ANII son de su propiedad o de  terceros, sin que 
  
pueda entenderse que el uso o acceso al sitio y/o sistemas proporciona al usuario  derecho alguno 
sobre las citadas marcas, nombres comerciales o signos distintivos de cualquier  clase.  
11. COOKIES  
ANII utiliza cookies. Usted puede configurar su navegador para ser avisado de la recepción de  las 
cookies o impedir su instalación.  
12. EJERCICIO DE LOS DERECHOS  
ANII garantiza el ejercicio de los derechos de acceso, rectificación, actualización, inclusión o 
supresión de los datos personales, debiendo el titular comunicarse con ANII a través del formulario 
de "Contacto" disponible en la web, mediante correo electrónico a datos@anii.org.uy o 
personalmente a Av. Italia 6201, edificio Los Nogales.  
 
 
13. FACULTADES DE ANII  
La ANII se reserva el derecho de exhibir y divulgar los datos de los titulares que utilicen los  Servicios, 
según lo dispuesto en esta política y/o en los términos y  condiciones específicas aplicables a los 
Servicios.  
En caso de que se detecten incumplimientos a las obligaciones que le caben a los titulares de  los 
datos, ANII se reserva el derecho de cancelar el acceso al usuario titular de los datos a los Servicios 
y/o sistemas de ANII. El mal uso de los Servicios de la Agencia podrá implicar la pérdida de becas,  
subsidios u otros tipos de financiamiento otorgados por ANII o por otras instituciones, sin perjuicio  
de otras medidas o responsabilidades que puedan corresponder por aplicación de disposiciones  
legales o administrativas.  
14. ACTUALIZACIONES DE LA POLÍTICA   
La política de la ANII estará disponible en su página web. ANII se reserva el derecho de realizar 
cualquier cambio y/o corrección a esta Política sin que ello requiera aviso o condición alguna. Es 
responsabilidad de los usuarios remitirse con cierta frecuencia a estos documentos para verificar las 
actualizaciones subsecuentes. En caso de discrepancia entre esta Política y los términos y 
condiciones específicos aplicable a los Servicios de la Agencia, se entenderán correctas y válidas las 
específicas, a todos los efectos  pertinentes.  
15. ENLACES  
La presente Política es de aplicación exclusiva para las bases de datos, sitios, portales, servicios o 
contenidos de la Agencia Nacional de Investigación e Innovación y no se extiende a los  enlaces hacia 
otros sitios, portales, servicios o contenidos de distinta titularidad. 
 
16. LEY APLICABLE Y JURISDICCIÓN COMPETENTE  
  
Esta Política se encuentra regida en todas sus cláusulas y sin excepción por las leyes de la  República 
Oriental del Uruguay.  
Cualquier controversia derivada de este documento, así como de los términos y condiciones  
específicas aplicables a las bases de datos de la Agencia, relativa a su existencia, validez,  
interpretación, alcance o cumplimiento será sometida a los Tribunales ordinarios de la ciudad de  
Montevideo, Uruguay. 
 
6 
