
 
 
 
1 
 
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY CALL 
 
The call opens on August 27th 2019 and will close on October 21st, 2019.  
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated through the Brazilian National Council of State  
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal offering support to researchers from Brazil, 
based in Brazilian higher education and research institutions, who are willing to working in research in 
Italy, in collaboration with local colleagues. 
The present call is based on the Cooperation Agreement between CONFAP and the University of Bologna, 
acting as Technical Secretariat of the network of Italian Universities. 
The objective of the agreement is to facilitate and support effective collaboration between the Parties for 
scientific, technological and innovation cooperation, through the mobility between the two countries of 
PhD students, Master students (Mestrado or Laurea Magistrale students) and post-docs.  
The call offers support for researchers in Brazil through Scholarships. 
The Scholarship Awards offer an opportunity for researchers associated to universities and research 
institutes in Brazil to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups through research 
collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the best research groups in Italy.  
This call, launched by CONFAP, may be complemented by specific Guidelines issued by each one of the 
participating FAPs. 
Such specific Guidelines must be consulted before preparing a proposal. The FAPs associated to this call 
are listed in section 6. 
1 Eligibility   
 
1.1. Eligible researchers based in universities and research institutions from the Brazilian States 
participating in this call are: 
a) PhD students  
b) Master students   
c) Post-doctoral  researchers  
  
 
 
 
2 
 
1.2. The supporting FAPs, listed under section 6 of the present call, may require additional eligibility 
criteria, which will be announced in their respective guidelines, in association with this call. 
Applicants must consult their respective FAPs before starting to prepare a proposal. 
1.3. All applicants must have a supervisor associated to a university in Italy.  
1.4. Eligible host institutions in Italy are indicated in the MCI website, under the section dedicated to 
academic opportunities for Brazilian candidates: 
http://www.mci.unibo.it/en/brazilian-candidates/academic-opportunities 
2 Support offered 
 
2.1 
Support is offered in the form of Scholarship Awards, which may include different funding 
components, according to the Guidelines of the respective FAPs supporting this call.  
2.2 
The support offered within the present call may include: 
a) For Master Students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
b) For Doctoral students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
c) Post-doctoral research. 
2.3 
No tuition fees will be charged by any side for any exchange mobility. 
2.4 
The values of the monthly scholarships will be indicated in the specific Guidelines issued by the 
respective FAPs which support the present call. (listed under Item 6 of the present call) 
2.5 
Additional requirements:  
In case of mobility in the frame of projects with potential commercial value and from which 
industrial and intellectual property rights may arise, the host and the sending institutions are 
required to sign a specific collaboration agreement settling these matters. Such specific 
collaboration agreements will take into account applicable national legislations and international 
conventions. 
3 How to Apply 
 
a) Applications must be sent within the 21st of October 2019, through the link: https://sigconfap.ledes.net/.   
b) Researchers from the States of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco and Minas Gerais must send 
proposals within the call’s link mentioned above and also directly to: 
  
 
 
 
3 
 
 
São Paulo - FAPESP: www.fapesp.br/13116 
 
Rio de Janeiro – FAPERJ, available through the link:  
http://www.faperj.br/downloads/Chamada_Mobility_Italy_Confap.pdf 
 
 
Pernambuco - FACEPE: http://agil.facepe.br/  
 
Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG: https://fapemig.br/pt/chamadas_abertas_oportunidades_confap/ 
 
For further information, please contact confap.mci@gmail.com  
4 Timeline 
 
Announcement  
August 27th, 2019 
Deadline for submission 
October 21st, 2019 
Final results published by CONFAP 
December 16th, 2019 
 
5 Selection criteria  
 
5.1 
All applications will be assessed through a peer review process carried out by each of the 
participating FAPs, according to the following criteria: 
a) 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
b) 
The academic performance and specific requirements indicated by the participating FAPs. 
c)         The academic performance of the supervisor at the host institution. 
d) 
The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
e) 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
f) 
The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Italian host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
5.2 
Each participating FAP may announce its specific selection criteria in their respective Guidelines 
associated to this call.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
4 
 
6 Supporting FAPs: 
 
The following Brazilian State Funding Agencies support the present call: 
 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco - FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF 
4. Alagoas – FAPEAL 
5. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
6. Goiás - FAPEG 
7. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
8. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
9. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
10. Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS 
11. Rio de Janeiro - FAPERJ 
12. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
13. Bahia - FAPESB 
14. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
15. São Paulo - FAPESP 
16. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
17. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
1 
DIRETRIZES PARA CHAMADA MOBILIDADE CONFAP ITÁLIA 2019 
MCI 2019 
 
I. OBJETO     
A presente Chamada é baseada no Acordo de Cooperação entre o Conselho 
Nacional das Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa-CONFAP e a 
Universidade Bolonha que visa promover a colaboração científica, 
tecnológica e de inovação entre as Instituições de Ensino e Pesquisa da 
Itália e as Instituições de Ensino e Pesquisa dos estados brasileiros e do 
Distrito Federal. 
 
II.   OBJETIVO      
O objetivo da presente Chamada é apoiar a colaboração entre as 
Instituições de Ensino e Pesquisa da Itália e as Instituições de Ensino e 
Pesquisa do Distrito Federal para cooperação científica, tecnológica e 
inovação por meio da mobilidade de pesquisadores de Mestrado, 
Doutorado e de Pós-doutorado. 
 
III.  CRONOGRAMA    
 
ATIVIDADE 
DATAS 
Lançamento do edital 
27 de agosto de 2019 
Encerramento das submissões 
21 de outubro de 2019 
Resultado 
16 de dezembro de 2019 
 
IV. CRITÉRIOS DE ELEGIBILIDADE    
Poderão participar desta Chamada pesquisadores vinculados a Instituições 
Públicas e Privadas de Ensino e Pesquisa, sediadas no Distrito Federal, que 
estejam regularmente matriculados (Mestrado e Doutorado). Os 
pesquisadores em treinamento de pós doutorado deverão possuir vínculo 
laboral com Instituições Públicas ou Privadas de Ensino e Pesquisa, sediadas 
no Distrito Federal. 
 
A. Para a submissão de propostas, os proponentes deverão atender as 
seguintes condições: 
a. ter nacionalidade brasileira ou estrangeira com Registro Nacional de 
Estrangeiro-RNE, permanente; 
b. ser residente e domiciliado no Distrito Federal ou Região Integrada de 
Desenvolvimento do Distrito Federal e Entorno-RIDE; 
c. ter cadastro atualizado no Sistema de Informação e Gestão de Projetos-
SIGFAP;  
d. estar adimplente com a FAPDF, Governo do Distrito Federal e o Governo 
Federal; e 
  
Governo do Distrito Federal 
Secretaria de Estado de Ciência, Tecnologia e Inovação 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
 
 
2 
e. ter cadastro atualizado, nos últimos três meses, na Plataforma Lattes do 
Conselho Nacional do Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico - CNPq; 
 
B.  Para Mestrado e de Doutorado: 
a. estar regularmente matriculados em Instituições de Ensino Públicas ou 
Privadas, sediadas no DF; e 
b. apresentar anuência do orientador e coordenador do curso. 
 
C.  Para Estágio de Pós Doutorado: 
a. possuir vínculo laboral com Instituições de Ensino e Pesquisa Público ou 
Privada, sediadas no Distrito Federal. 
 
V. APOIO FINANCEIRO 
Para a presente Chamada serão destinados recursos no valor de R$ 
150.000,00 (cento e cinquenta mil reais) para despesas de custeio, a serem 
liberados de acordo com a disponibilidade orçamentária e financeira da 
FAPDF, que envolverão a Bolsa, passagem de ida e volta em classe 
econômica e seguro viagem. 
O valor mensal da Bolsa (mestrado, doutorado e pósdoc) será de R$ 
8.000,00 (oito mil reais) por até 3 (três meses). 
  
VI. ÁREAS DE CONHECIMENTO 
Todas as áreas de conhecimento poderão ser apoiadas pela presente 
Chamada.  
Serão consideradas prioritárias as áreas de Bioeconomia, Ciência de Dados, 
Energia e o tema Smart Cities. 
 
    
 
           
 
 
 
        
           
 
 
NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JUNE 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
1 
 
 
Newton Fund Impact Scheme 
Applicant Guidelines 
Version 0.1 
 
Overview of change(s) from previous version: 
 
Change 
Page in version 0.1 
Page in version 0.2 
 
 
 
 
Countries included in this call are: 
Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia and Mexico 
Call opens: 16 July 2019 12:00 (midday) UK time 
Call closes: 13 September 2019, 16:00 UK time  
 
Funding Available: A total of £25 million across two calls in a total of 17 countries (Year 1: 
Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia and Mexico), matched by in-country partners.  
How to apply: Online submission via 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-fund-impact-
scheme (please note that the application form will be open from 18th July 2019). Newton 
Fund Impact Scheme grants will be made available to recipients of Newton funding from any 
Newton Delivery Partner. For the current call eligible applicants are defined as listed in 
Appendix 2. All applications must be submitted via this online form regardless of the 
previous awarding organisation. We invite applications from previous and existing Newton 
Fund grant holders which were in collaboration with these four countries only. Collaborations 
may include a new component from either of the countries involved in the original grant but 
at least one component of the team must remain the same (either UK or other component). 
Assessment Process: Two stage process. Stage 1: Parallel expert review panels (up to 5 
panels grouped covering the following themes: arts and humanities; medical and biomedical 
science; engineering and physical sciences; environmental and agricultural sciences; and 
social sciences). Stage 2: a tensioning panel to ensure consistent scoring and produce 
country specific ranked ordered lists (inclusive of all themes). Stage 3: a moderation panel 
between UK and in country partner funders.  
Grant disbursement process: The British Council will disburse grants to British Council, 
the UK Academies and the Met Office’s previous and existing grantees. UK Research and 
Innovation (UKRI) will disburse grants to UKRI previous and existing grantees. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
2 
 
Key Dates: 
Activity  
Date  
Call opens  
16th July 2019  
Application form will open for applicants 
18th July 2019 
Deadline for applications 
13th September 2019  
Review and tensioning panels 
November 2019  
Moderation panel 
November/December 2019  
Announcement of awards 
January 2020  
Successful UKRI applicants to re-apply through Je-S or Innovate 
systems  
January 2020 
 
Contracting for British Council, UK Academies, Met Office applicants 
January/February 2020 
Grants awarded for UKRI applicants 
March/April 2020 
 
Additional information: We will allow only one application per Project Leader, from either 
country. Current and previous UKRI applicants whose applications are business-led, should 
be aware that there will be additional application steps as detailed throughout this guidance 
document. 
 
Contact: UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org  
 
1. Background 
The Newton Fund builds research and innovation partnerships with 17 partner 
countries to support their economic development and social welfare, and to develop 
their research and innovation capacity for long term sustainable growth.  It has a total 
UK Government investment of £735 million up until 2021, with matched resources from 
partner countries. The Newton Fund is managed by the UK Department for Business, 
Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), and delivered through 7 UK delivery partners, 
which includes UK Research and Innovation (and therefore the 7 Research Councils 
and Innovate UK), the UK Academies, the British Council and the Met Office. For 
further information visit the Newton Fund website (www.newtonfund.ac.uk) and follow 
via Twitter: @NewtonFund. 
Tackling global challenges – such as extreme weather conditions, urbanisation, 
access to affordable health care, food and energy security, and meeting the social and 
economic needs of a growing population – requires an integrated research and 
innovation approach, bringing together communities from different disciplines, sectors 
and countries in high-quality collaborations. 
The Newton Fund Impact Scheme is designed to provide previous and current 
Newton award holders with the opportunity to unlock further impact from their work in 
a way that strengthens the profile of the Fund. The intention is that Newton Fund 
Impact Scheme grants add tangible value to the investment already made by partner 
funders and the UK. Newton Fund Impact Scheme grants will be made available to 
recipients of Newton funding from any Newton Delivery Partner. For the current call 
eligible applicants are defined as listed in Appendix 2.  
 
The Newton Fund Impact Scheme is delivered by the British Council in partnership 
with UKRI on behalf of BEIS.  
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
3 
 
Overview of the funding opportunity 
The Newton Fund Impact Scheme provides funding for current and previously funded 
Newton Fund grantees aiming to maximise the impact from Newton Fund activities.  
The collaboration between UK and partner countries could build upon the original 
partnership or form a new partnership (see section 2 for more details). 
We expect the Newton Fund Impact Scheme to stimulate new pathways to impact, 
broaden impact into other areas, or significantly extend impact from previous projects. 
Grants will not be provided to support the continuation of activities under the existing 
project. Applicants should make a strong case to demonstrate that proposals consist 
of new activities that build on the previous project and focus primarily on impact 
realisation. 
Applicants are invited to think creatively about ways these aims can be achieved. The 
grants will provide funding targeting the following key areas: 
I. 
Initiating or increasing policy impacts or user engagement. This may involve 
translating existing research or research outcomes into policy impacts, 
increasing engagement with users, measures to overcome identified barriers 
to impact or extending engagement into new user communities. 
II. 
Initiating or increasing engagement with impact multipliers (e.g. businesses, 
start-ups, NGOs or charities). This may involve moving research outcomes 
further along the translation pipeline or extending the outcomes into the 
commercial sector.  
 
The Newton Fund Impact Scheme is designed to be flexible and responsive to 
in-country needs. It allows applicants to realise impact from Newton Fund activities 
supporting country priorities and development needs. It is intended to empower 
applicants to bring in relevant private and third sector partners, including small and 
medium enterprises (SMEs), non-governmental organisations (NGOs), technology 
transfer offices, and other not-for-profit organisations. 
Grants can be up to a maximum £200,000 for up to two years, dependent on the 
country (see Appendix 1 for country specific limits) and may exceed this limit only for 
projects previously funded by Innovate UK. If your grant costs exceed this limit, you 
must email support@innovateuk.ukri.org with full justification at least 10 days before 
the competition closes otherwise you will be deemed ineligible. While there is no formal 
minimum, we are looking to support significant interventions that extend beyond 
individual mobility alone. 
For best fit to the local context and development needs we would encourage applicants 
to review relevant national science and technology strategies as listed in Appendix 1 
– country specific guidance. 
 
2. Scope of the programme 
Grants under the Newton Fund Impact Scheme allow project leaders to find new 
pathways to impact which can be realised within the former grant’s research area or 
under a different theme targeting other development-relevant stakeholders.  
The scope for individual activities is broad and flexible. However, it will be expected 
that all proposed activities are: 
 
• 
Evidence-based 
• 
Responsive to experience and lessons learned through preceding Newton projects 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
4 
 
• 
Beneficial to clearly defined, development-relevant stakeholders 
 
Suggested activities include but are not limited to: 
 
• 
Convening of; researchers; practitioners; policy makers; businesses; SMEs; industry 
bodies; civil society leaders; other relevant public sector representatives; journalists, 
government/parliamentary intermediaries and other non-academic dissemination 
professionals; research support staff and technicians; service providers; investors; 
and catalysts, for a wide range of creative stakeholder engagement activities such as 
knowledge brokerage, debates, seminars, round-table discussions, exhibitions and 
workshops. 
• 
Knowledge products, publications or other media: guides to making practical use of 
research outputs, evidence synthesis products, policy white papers or other specific 
recommendation papers that put the evidence into the wider context, translation of 
key information, creative packaging of research results and recommendations for 
public engagement. 
• 
Provision of staff or equipment for facilitating specific kinds of impact. 
• 
Provision of training to select cohorts in techniques or practice relevant to specific 
impacts or aimed at reducing current barriers to impact.  
• 
Commercial outputs, prototyping, demonstrations, site-visits (only those that include 
key impact relevant stakeholders), trials, on-site testing/verification, collection of 
results vital to recommendations. 
o Newton Fund Impact Scheme collaborations should demonstrate how they will 
benefit the partner countries within and beyond the research and innovation 
community. 
o Countries to be involved in the July 2019 call are: 
Brazil, Kenya, Malaysia, Mexico  
 
UK component costs (for details of the non-UK component please see the country 
specific details in Appendix 1): 
 
For non-profit organisations and Research Institutions, these are the eligible costs at 
80% FEC: 
 
• Staff costs (including directly incurred and directly allocated posts).  
• Other research costs (including consumables). Please note that no single 
items over £10,000 may be included.  
• Travel and subsistence for exchange/mobility activities (including cost of 
workshops, meetings etc).  
• Estates and indirect costs. 
 
 
For more details on eligible costs please see section 7.1. 
Details on eligible costs for applications led by for-profit organisations which will be 
awarded by Innovate UK can be found here:  
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/innovate-uk-completing-your-
application-project-costs-guidance/partner-finance-form-guidance. 
Newton Fund Impact Scheme grants can also support the training of technical staff, or 
finance other activities necessary for laying the foundations for longer term impact on 
the research and innovation landscape, and on economic development and social 
welfare.  
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
5 
 
Applicants can request a grant contribution tackling barriers to diversity and inclusion. 
Examples of costs that can be covered include but are not limited to: additional 
childcare costs, measures to support the participation of researchers and team 
members with disabilities. Such requests should be clearly marked in the budget form 
and should be supported by justifications submitted separately by email to:  
UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org 
As funding for the project can be disbursed via both the UK and the partner country 
funding agencies, in some countries there may be restrictions on partner country costs. 
Please refer to Appendix 1 for details. 
 
3. Relevance to economic development and social welfare [Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) eligibility] 
 
For the purpose of the Newton Fund Impact Scheme, we define activities leading to 
impact with development relevance as activities that have the potential to contribute to 
the economic development and social welfare of low and middle-income countries1, 
benefitting low income and/or vulnerable populations in these countries. 
In order to be considered for funding under the Newton Fund Impact Scheme, all 
proposals must clearly articulate a plausible pathway to positive impact on these 
populations within a short to medium term timeframe (within 10 years). 
Applications which do not meet this criterion cannot receive support under the 
UK Newton Fund Impact Scheme.  
In some disciplines, development relevance can be longer term and less direct than in 
other areas, impact may also be societal. In all cases, it is the responsibility of the 
applicant to articulate within the application how the proposed activities will meet these 
criteria. Applicants must complete the ODA compliance section of the application form 
and should not expect reviewers to make assumptions about development impact that 
is not clearly described within the proposal. 
For more on our approach to ODA, please see: 
http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/ 
Failure to demonstrate ODA eligibility will render your application ineligible 
regardless of other success criteria. Please make sure you consider the ODA 
relevance of your application. 
In order to show development relevance within the context of their proposed project, 
applicants are advised to include within their application reference to any local or 
national consultation, links to government policies, and existing links with government 
institutions. 
Agreements for ownership and exploitation of intellectual property generated through 
project activities must be consistent with the primary aim of addressing development 
issues. 
ODA transparency and reporting 
As part of the government’s commitment to ODA transparency and in line with DfID 
ODA reporting requirements, UKRI is responsible for publishing information about 
                         
1 As defined by the OECD DAC list of official development assistance (ODA) recipients 
http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/documentupload/DAC%20List%20of%20ODA%20Recipients%202014%20final.p
df 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
6 
 
UKRI ODA grants including project titles and summaries via the International Aid 
Transparency Initiative (IATI) registry and via DFID’s national statistics.   
The purpose of publishing information via the IATI registry is to make information about 
ODA easily accessible to governments, stakeholders and other relevant groups in 
beneficiary countries. All UKRI funded projects from this programme will be published 
in this way. Please therefore write your project title and summary in such a way that 
they are meaningful and accessible to non-specialist audiences, following publication.   
We would be grateful if you would ensure that the project title and summary are written 
in plain English and avoid the use of jargon, acronyms, puns and plays on words. 
Please also make clear in your project title and summary how your project is ODA-
compliant, for example by identifying the development challenge(s) being addressed, 
the aims of the project and the beneficiary countries. 
 
4.  Equitable Partnerships 
Partnerships are a key pillar of the Newton Fund. UKRI developed the following 
statement of expectation for research partnerships in consultation with researchers 
from East Africa:  
 
Partnerships should be transparent and based on mutual respect. Partnerships 
should aim to have clearly articulated equitable distribution of resources, 
responsibilities, efforts and benefits. Partnerships should recognise different inputs, 
different interests and different desired outcomes and should ensure the ethical 
sharing and use of data which is responsive to the identified needs of society.  
 
Further guidance on how to develop and maintain equitable research partnerships is 
available in KFPE’s Guide for transboundary research partnerships ‘11 Principles 
and 7 questions’: 
 
https://naturalsciences.ch/organisations/kfpe/11_principles_7_questions 
 
5. Safeguarding 
British Council and UKRI condemn all forms of harm and abuse, including bullying 
and harassment. We take a zero-tolerance approach to harm and abuse to any 
individual employed through or associated with our programmes in all contexts; 
whether in humanitarian or fragile and conflict-affected settings, in other field 
contexts, or within the international or UK research and development community 
which we fund. We expect institutions to promote the highest standards in 
organisational culture, and have in place the systems and procedures required to 
prevent and tackle all incidents of harm and abuse. Applications should detail how 
they will identify and manage safeguarding risks within their projects. 
 
6. Eligibility 
Proposals must fulfil the following criteria in order to be eligible for funding under 
this Programme: 
• 
Each proposal must have one Project Leader from the UK and one 
Project Leader from the partner country (this refers to the leader of the 
previous project for example a PI on a previous Research Council grant). 
• 
Newton Fund alumni in-country whose projects are eligible for this call 
(please see Appendix 2) but did not include a UK partner can jointly apply 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
7 
 
for Newton Fund Impact Scheme funding with a UK partner of their 
choice, as long as the UK partner is eligible for Newton Funding and the 
partnership improves the impact of their original project . 
• 
Institutions or Individuals with active sanctions against them from one of 
the Delivery Partners will not be eligible for this Call 
• 
Project Leaders may only submit one application per each previously 
funded Newton Fund projects. Applicants will need to submit the 
existing/previous grant ID number as part of the application form to allow 
administrative checks. 
• 
Multiple applications per previous grant will not be accepted. If multiple 
applications are received for the same existing/previous grants the 
application will be returned to the Project Leaders who will need to make a 
decision as to how to proceed. 
• 
Where Project Leaders are involved in multiple previous grants they may 
only submit one application per each previously funded Newton Fund grant.  
• 
Project Leaders must be employed by a host institution and have a 
contract that extends beyond the period of the grant at one of the 
following (Emeritus and Honorary Professors may not charge for their 
time): 
o A not-for-profit higher education institution with the capacity to 
undertake high-quality- research, unless specified otherwise in 
Appendix 1. 
o A UK higher education institution (all UK higher education institutions 
that receive grant funding from one of the UK higher education funding 
bodies are eligible). 
o A not-for-profit research organisation with the capacity to undertake 
high-quality research2. Catapult Centres3 (in the case of the UK 
Principal Applicant) are only eligible for grants that will be disbursed by 
British Council and Innovate UK. 
o For business led applications, businesses can submit applications 
themselves. A business is defined as an organisation undertaking 
commercial activities. Businesses acting as Lead Institutions can have 
their eligible costs funded at the following rates: 
Applicant 
Business 
Size 
Fundamental 
Research 
Feasibility 
Studies 
Industrial 
Research 
Experimental 
Development 
Micro/Small 
100% 
70% 
70% 
45% 
Medium 
100% 
60% 
60% 
35% 
Large 
100% 
50% 
50% 
25% 
 
                         
2 Please see the list here  
https://www.ukri.org/funding/how-to-apply/eligibility/ 
for a list of eligible UK research organisations. 
3 https://www.innovateuk.org/-/catapult-centres 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
8 
 
The definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SME) used 
by Innovate UK is set out in the European Commission Recommendation 
of 6 May 2003. A large business in this context means any enterprise 
which is not an SME. If the business is not a current or former Newton 
Fund grant holder themselves then the other Lead Institution on the project 
must be. 
 
• 
Both of the Project Leaders’ institutions (the ‘Lead Institutions’) must have the 
capacity to administer the grant. 
• 
Co- Leaders of previously funded Newton Fund projects can submit an 
application instead of a previous Project Leader, but this will need to be 
endorsed by both former grant Project Leaders through supporting letters 
• 
Project Leaders might apply within the same partnerships or with a new lead 
partner organisation. If the latter, the Project Leader will need to submit a 
supporting letter from the former partner Project Leader confirming their 
support 
• 
Organisations affiliated to higher education institutions in the UK or any other 
country and based in the partner country, (e.g. an overseas campus) are not 
eligible for UKRI awarded grants. For British Council awarded grants they 
may apply as the Lead Institution in the partner country provided that other 
eligible higher education institutions or research organisations are also 
involved as Project Partners/Associated Partners in the partner country (see 
below for a definition of such partners). 
• 
Organisations cannot apply as Lead Institutions in conjunction with their own 
affiliates in other countries. 
• 
UKRI (Research Councils and Innovate UK) current grantees should check 
Appendix 2 to see whether their application will be considered eligible as only 
applicants funded under the previous Calls listed in Appendix 2 can submit an 
application under this Call.  
 
To support the realisation of impact, Project Leaders are encouraged to include in their 
proposals project partners, or associated partners. A project partner, or associated 
partner is defined as a collaborating organisation that will have an integral role in the 
proposed research and from which you have secured a commitment (other than British 
Council/UKRI or the in-country funding partner) to provide additional resources for this 
project. This may include in-kind or cash contributions such as expertise, staff time, 
use of facilities, etc. 
These can include: 
• 
Other research or higher education institutions 
• 
Technology transfer offices 
• 
Not for-profit organisations (including NGOs) 
• 
For-profit/commercial organisations (including SMEs) 
• 
UK Catapults 
 
A letter of support from each project partner/associated partner confirming the level 
of support specific to this proposal must be included as an attachment. 
This must be signed, dated within three months of submission and on headed paper.   
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
9 
 
Businesses and for-profit organisations previously funded through Newton by Innovate 
UK can apply as Lead Institutions for Newton Fund Impact Scheme. However, if the 
business is not a current or former Newton Fund grant holder themselves then the 
other Lead Institution on the project must be a current or former Newton Fund grant 
holder. For all other research and capacity building focused applications only not-for-
profit institutions, or publicly funded organisations as described in Appendix 2 are 
eligible to apply as Lead Institutions. 
Any businesses part of a university led project must follow the guidance of the 
organisation that administered the original Newton Fund grant, e.g. MRC. Unless the 
remit of the project has changed then the guidelines of the appropriate funder should 
be followed. 
 
Eligibility checks will be applied to all proposals on receipt. Proposals which are not 
led by eligible applicants, organisations or business (unless specified otherwise in 
Appendix 1) will be rejected during these checks. Please see Appendix 2 for a full list 
of eligibility criteria. 
If you are unsure about your organisation’s eligibility, for UK see the link at Footnote 
2; for partner countries, please contact the local British Council office. If you are still 
unsure please contact us at NFIS@britishcouncil.org.  
 
7. Funding available 
 
The British Council will disburse grants to British Council, UK Academies and Met 
Office grantees while UKRI will disburse grants to UKRI grantees. 
The level of grant funding available from the Newton Fund Impact Scheme depends 
on the country: please see Appendix 1 for country specific guidance and funding limits. 
Funds will be disbursed directly to the Lead Institution(s), (i.e. the Project Leaders’ 
institutions) according to the approved final budget.  
For British Council disbursed grants, unless stated otherwise, an advance payment of 
60% of the UK component of the Newton Fund grant will be made on signature of the 
grant agreement, followed by two payments of 20% dependent on approval of reports 
by the British Council.  Please note that payment ratios can vary for different countries.  
In the case of Research Council grants: Research Councils will pay the UK component 
of the grant directly to the lead UK Organisation, quarterly in arrears. Where necessary 
the UK lead organisation will be responsible for disbursing the funds to other UK 
organisations.  
In the case of Innovate UK grants: Innovate UK will pay the UK grant, quarterly in 
arrears directly to each UK organisation. 
As detailed above, businesses and for-profit organisations previously funded by 
Innovate UK through the Newton Fund can apply as Lead Institutions for Newton Fund 
Impact Scheme. For all other research and capacity building focused applications, for-
profit organisations are not eligible to apply as lead institutions. For British Council 
awarded grants they cannot receive any grant funds except to cover travel associated 
costs. 
Please note that Appendix 1 specifies further, country-specific information on eligible 
and ineligible costs. 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
10 
 
Please note that existing and previously funded British Council and Research Council 
Project Leaders are expected to complete and submit the budget form (including costs 
from both countries) provided via the following link: 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/newton_fund_impact_scheme_budge
t_form_ukri_and_bc.xlsx 
 
Please note that Innovate UK existing and previously funded Project Leaders are 
expected to complete and submit the budget form (including costs from both countries) 
provided via the following link: 
 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/newton_fund_impact_scheme_budge
t_form_innovate_uk.xlsx 
 
In addition, a summary of costs to be covered by the grant must be included in the 
online application form and must contain justifications, (e.g. why consumables or 
equipment are needed, why travel is necessary). 
Please also complete the budget summary on the online application form with the totals 
from your budget spreadsheet and a brief justification for the amounts applied for. 
Where you do not provide explanation for an item that requires justification, or include 
an ineligible cost, it may be cut from any grant made. 
The following sections detail the costs that can and cannot be included in your budget 
request. 
 
7.1 Eligible costs 
Newton Fund Impact Scheme grants are intended to contribute to the costs of 
establishing and operating your collaboration, (i.e. costs directly related to 
implementing activities contained in the proposal). 
The British Council and UKRI are committed to equal opportunities and diversity and 
will consider, on a case by case basis, requests for support to encourage 
under-represented groups to engage in the Newton Fund Impact Scheme activity, so 
long as sufficient justification is provided. 
Unless specified in the country-specific guidance Newton Fund Impact Scheme grants 
can cover: 
Staff costs 
  
‘Directly Allocated staff’ are those who will be working directly on the project, but 
whose involvement on the grant can only be based on an estimate of the time the 
work will take (e.g. investigators). ‘Directly Incurred staff’ are those whose time on the 
project is actual, auditable and verifiable (e.g. researchers and technicians).  
 
Travel and Subsistence costs  
 
Add each item of Travel and Subsistence required for your project. You should 
indicate the calculations upon which this figure is based.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
11 
 
Other directly incurred costs  
 
Including specified consumables, consultancy fees, equipment costing less than 
£10,000, recruitment and advertising costs to be incurred by the UK Research 
Organisation.  
 
Other directly allocated costs  
 
Including support staff salaries, a share of the costs of departmental support staff, 
and the costs of access to major research facilities.  
 
Estates and indirect costs  
 
Estate and indirect costs are specific to each UK research organisation, and do not 
require justification. UK research organisations that have implemented the TRAC 
costing methodology and have passed the Quality Assurance process should apply 
their own estate and indirect costs. Non-research organisations that are not required 
to implement TRAC must have a robust costing methodology in place that has been 
validated in order to apply their own estates and indirect cost rates. The standard 
default rates should be used where research organisations have not yet developed 
their own rates.  
 
Data 
 
If your project will produce environmental science NERC relevant data, then you 
must work with the relevant NERC Data Centre(s) to cost this as part of your 
proposal, and enter it as an 'Other Directly Incurred cost’. 
http://www.nerc.ac.uk/research/sites/data/. These costs should be flagged as an 
exception and will be awarded at 100%.  
 
Facilities 
 
Given the time restrictions on spend under Calls supported by the Newton Fund, we 
are unable to accept NERC shiptime or aircraft requests as part of this Call. All other 
Research Council Services & Facilities must be fully costed within the limits of the 
proposal, and agreement that they can be undertaken within the timeframe of the 
spend must be provided by the facility. 
 
Ineligible costs include (but are not limited to):  
 
Equipment costs  
 
Individual items costing £10,000 or more (including VAT) are not eligible under this 
call. Innovate UK grants: Innovate UK will only pay for Capital Usage4.  
 
Studentships 
 
Costs associated with Masters and PhD studentships are not eligible under this call. 
 
 
 
 
                         
4 As defined here: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/innovate-uk-completing-your-
application-project-costs-guidance/partner-finance-form-guidance#capital-usage 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
12 
 
Exception costs  
 
Exceptional costs are not expected within this call. If applicants feel it is essential 
they should discuss any exceptional cost by emailing UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org in 
the first instance, explaining the cost and why it is essential to the success of the 
proposal.  
 
Other support  
 
Enter details of any support sought or received from any other source for this or other 
research in the same field in the past three years. Complete all fields for support 
either received or pending a decision. 
 
Industry partners 
 
For MRC grantees with industrial partners, standard MRC guidance applies. A MRC 
Industry Collaboration Agreement (MICA) will need to be agreed before application. 
Please follow the link for more information: 
https://mrc.ukri.org/innovation/mrc-industry-collaboration-agreement-mica/ 
 
Please note that eligible costs for Innovate UK grantees are listed here: 
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/innovate-uk-completing-your-
application-project-costs-guidance/partner-finance-form-guidance  
 
Please contact UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org if you are in doubt which costs the Newton 
Fund Impact Scheme can and cannot cover. 
To ensure value for money, the budget requested in your proposal (including human 
resource costs) should cover only costs that are essential, appropriate and relevant to 
the collaboration. The proposal should maximise cost share through direct and indirect 
institutional contributions, in-kind funding, other funding sources, and private sector 
support. 
Please indicate in the appropriate budget spreadsheet (and summarise as indicated 
on the application form) funds applied for from other sources to cover the collaboration; 
please clarify the status of the funding applications, (i.e. successful; decision pending). 
Please indicate when you will know the outcome of any pending applications. 
 
8. Project duration 
 
The maximum duration of the proposed collaboration is 24 months (less for some 
participating countries – see Appendix 1). Funding, if approved, will be transferred 
to the successful institution once the grant agreement is counter-signed, or the grant 
offer letter is accepted depending who the former funder was.  
Formal project start dates will be set out in the offer letter/grant agreement, start dates 
will be fixed, and grants are expected to start in early 2020. Expenses incurred by the 
institutions prior to the effective start date, including any costs incurred in the 
production of the proposal, cannot be charged to the grant. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
13 
 
9. Ethics and research governance 
 
It is essential that all legal and professional codes of practice are followed in conducting 
work supported by this Programme. Applicants must ensure the proposed activity will 
be carried out to the highest standards of ethics and research integrity.  
Please refer to the Research Councils UK ‘Policy and Guidelines on Governance of 
Good Research Conduct’ (http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/Publications/researchers/grc), the 
Inter Academy Partnership report ‘Doing Global Science: A Guide to Responsible 
Conduct 
in 
the 
Global 
Research 
Enterprise’ 
(http://www.interacademycouncil.net/24026/29429.aspx) 
or 
contact 
us 
at 
UK 
NFIS@britishcouncil.org for further guidance. 
It is the absolute responsibility of the Project Leaders and the Lead Institutions to 
ensure that appropriate ethical approval is granted and adhered to, and that no 
research requiring ethical approval is initiated until it has been granted. 
The Ethical Information sub-sections in the application form should be completed to 
give details of any human participation, research using animals, genetic and biological 
risk, and ethical committee approvals required. In the online application form, 
applicants must clearly articulate how any potential ethical and health and safety 
issues have been considered and how they will be addressed, ensuring that all 
necessary ethical approval is in place before the project commences and all risks are 
minimised. Specifically, applications that involve research on animals, human 
participants, human tissue or patient/participant data must be accompanied by 
necessary 
permission 
certificates 
from 
the 
relevant 
local 
ethical 
review 
committees/authorities in the UK and the partner country, or an undertaking to obtain 
this permission in advance of the activity commencing. Failure to do so will result in 
applications being rendered ineligible and any funding already committed through this 
Programme being rescinded. 
Applicants must be clear in their applications in which country the proposed research 
involving humans and/or animals will take place and must fully complete the Ethical 
Information section for research taking place in either country. 
Applicants must comply with UKRI relevant policies and guidance regarding the use 
of humans/human tissue and/or animals in research.  
Approval(s) for the research detailed in a Newton Fund Impact Scheme grant 
proposal must be granted by the appropriate bodies before any work can commence. 
Institutions, applicants and grant holders have absolute responsibility for ensuring 
that the necessary approvals are granted for the research set out in their proposal.  
The Project Leader/Lead Institution must be prepared to furnish the British 
Council/UKRI with a copy of the ethical approval, and any correspondence with the 
committees, if requested by either funder. The Project Leader must notify the funder 
(British Council or UKRI as appropriate) if a regulator or a research ethics committee 
requires amendments that substantially affect the research question, methodology or 
costs to the extent that the project is no longer the same as that approved for funding 
by the British Council/UKRI.  
 
9.1 Partner country ethics guidance  
 
The Lead Institution is responsible for managing and monitoring the conduct of 
medical and health research in a manner consistent with the UK Policy Framework 
for Health and Social Care Research. There must be effective and verifiable systems 
in place for managing research quality, progress and the safety and well-being of 
patients and other research participants. These systems must promote and maintain 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
14 
 
the relevant codes of practice and all relevant statutory review, authorisation and 
reporting requirements. Applicants are responsible to obtain ethical approval from 
relevant authorities before the start of activities that require such approval. Applicant 
must ensure that the work carried out adheres to the local guidelines for best 
practice. The guidance for the UK part of the proposal is set out below. 
 
9.2 Humans/Human Tissue  
 
Applicants must comply with relevant MRC policies and guidance (section 5 of the 
Guidance for Applicants 2019). In particular, applicants should be aware of the 
following guidance/requirements:  
Current policy for research involving humans to take place overseas, is that for 
research to be undertaken internationally, both local and UK ethical approval is 
required previously of the project execution. For clinical studies involving human 
participants and/or patients in the UK or overseas, appropriate consent must be 
obtained. 
 
For clinical studies involving human participants and/or patients in the UK or 
overseas, appropriate consent must be obtained.  
 
Where the overseas partner or another third party (ANY organisation other than the 
UK Lead Institution) is responsible for recruitment of people as research participants 
and/or providing human tissue, details should be included in the case for support and 
a letter of support MUST be attached to the application. The letter of support should 
be titled Human participation and include confirmation of the following:  
 
• 
That the international partner has agreed to recruit the participants/provide 
tissue  
• 
That what is being supplied is suitable for the research being undertaken  
• 
That the quantity of tissue (where relevant) being supplied is suitable, but not 
excessive for achieving meaningful results  
 
The letter of support must be an integral part of the application (as an attachment) 
and must focus on the proposal it accompanies.  
 
9.3 Use of Animals  
 
Applicants must ensure that all of the proposed research, both that in the UK and in 
the partner country, will comply with the principles of the MRC common guidance on  
“Responsibility in the use of animals in bioscience research” 
https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/responsibility-use-animals-bioscience-research 
  
In particular, UK Institutions should be aware of the following aspect of the guidance 
relating to research or collaboration outside the UK:  
 
“When collaborating with other laboratories, or where animal facilities are provided by 
third parties, researchers and the local ethics committee in the UK should satisfy 
themselves that welfare standards consistent with the principles of UK legislation 
(e.g. the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986), and set out in this guidance, are 
applied and maintained.  
Where there are significant deviations, prior approval from the funding body should 
be sought and agreed. International research should also be compliant with all 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
15 
 
relevant national and local regulatory systems in the host country where the research 
is to be conducted.”  
 
Investigators proposing the use of animals should provide an additional letter 
including the following information:  
 
• 
a signed statement from both UK and partner country Project Leaders that:  
o they will adhere to all relevant national and local regulatory systems in the UK 
and the partner country.   
o they will follow the guidelines laid out in the 
https://www.nc3rs.org.uk/responsibility-use-animals-bioscience-research 
o document and ensure that work is carried out to a minimum of UK standards  
o before initiation of the proposed research work, appropriate approvals from 
Institutional and/or central animal ethics committees will be obtained for 
experimental protocols to be adopted in their projects. Successful proposals 
may be expected to provide copies of these permissions before funding is 
released.  
• 
Details on where the animal research will take place (UK or overseas) and through 
which funder the resources are being sought. Applicants should include confirmation 
that animal welfare standards at these institutions meet the requirements outlined 
above.  
 
All applicants are required to comply with Section 4: ‘Proposals involving animal use’ 
of the Guidance for Applicants 20195. Applicants should detail in the letter any 
additional information which was not included in the proposal document, but which is 
pertinent to the animal research proposed and which the funders should be aware of.  
In addition, researchers should be reminded that sufficient information and 
justification regarding any animal research proposed, regardless of country, must be 
provided in the proposal order to allow full peer review to take place.  
 
10. Diversity 
UKRI and British Council are committed to equality, diversity and inclusion, and to 
continuing to attract and nurture talented people from the widest pool to remain 
internationally competitive in research and innovation. We believe that everyone has 
a right to be treated with dignity and respect, and to be provided with equal 
opportunities to flourish and succeed. This includes avoidance of bias due to disability, 
gender reassignment, marriage or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity, 
race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, sex (gender), and age.  
We also recognise, and will seek to maximise, the benefits achieved by diversity of 
thought and experience within inclusive groups, organisations and the wider 
community. UKRI and British Council are therefore committed to ensuring that the best 
potential researchers from a diverse population are attracted into research careers. 
For further information, please see our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Principles and 
Action Plan - https://www.ukri.org/about-us/policies-and-standards/equality-diversity-
and-inclusion/. Applicants are asked to consider encouraging participation from 
researchers from under-represented groups in the teams implementing their proposed 
activities.  
Applicants may apply for funding to cover extra costs for such participation, for 
example, for people with disabilities who may otherwise not be able to participate, or 
for additional childcare. Please describe any action you are taking to encourage 
                         
5 https://mrc.ukri.org/funding/guidance-for-applicants/ 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
16 
 
diversity under “Collaboration” (4th question) on your application form. Please make 
costs necessary to cover this inclusion clear in the ‘human resources’ section of the 
budget request within your application. 
Please contact us at UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org for further information on funding. 
For more on the British Council’s approach, see our Equality Policy at: 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/about-us/how-we-work/policies/equality-diversity-
inclusion  
 
11. Application Documents 
 
CVs 
 
A CV for each Project Leader and Co-Leader must be included. This should include  
contact details, qualifications (including class and subject), academic and professional 
posts held since graduation, a list of the most relevant and recent publications, and a 
record of research funded by the Research Councils and other bodies. This should be 
uploaded under the “CV” attachment type and not exceed three pages. Please note 
publications lists should be submitted within these three pages, not as a separate 
document. 
 
Gender Equality Statement 
 
To comply with the International Development (Gender Equality) Act 2014, 
applications must provide a Gender Equality Statement, outlining how applicants 
have taken meaningful yet proportionate consideration as to how the project will 
contribute to reducing gender inequalities. This must be no longer than one page and 
is a mandatory attachment. Successful applicants for UKRI managed grants may be 
required to rewrite the statement before submission to Je-S. UKRI and British 
Council reserve the right to reject the application if no consideration has been given 
to gender equality or if the proposal is assessed to result in a negative impact for 
gender equality.  
 
Applicants are required to address the below criteria, with an understanding that, 
depending on the nature of their research and innovation, not all questions will be 
applicable.  
 
Criteria to address while considering gender impact:  
 
• 
Have measures been put in place to ensure equal and meaningful 
opportunities for people of different genders to be involved throughout the 
project? This includes the development of the project, the participants of the 
research and innovation, and the beneficiaries of the research and innovation.  
• 
The expected impact of the project (benefits and losses) on people of 
different genders, both throughout the project and beyond.  
• 
The impact on the relations between people of different genders and people 
of the same gender. For example, changing roles and responsibilities in 
households, society, economy, politics, power, etc.  
• 
How will any risks and unintended negative consequences on gender equality 
be avoided or mitigated against, and monitored?  
• 
Are there any relevant outcomes and outputs being measured, with data 
disaggregated by age and gender (where disclosed)?  
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
17 
 
Further guidance for applicants on Gender Equality Statements is available: 
https://www.ukri.org/research/global-challenges-research-fund/gender-equality-and-
international-development-research-and-innovation/  
 
Data Management Plan 
 
All applicants submitting a proposal to the Newton Fund Impact Scheme must include 
a Data Management Plan. Please describe how the transnational project will be 
managed with emphasis on communication strategies, data management and data 
sharing across the project and management of intellectual property. Please describe 
potential routes to translate the outcomes from the project into genuine impacts that 
benefit the partner country or other DAC list countries. Any additional impacts that 
benefit the UK should also be noted. You should include interaction with private sector, 
policy makers and other relevant stakeholders.  
This statement must clearly detail how you will comply with UKRI’s’ Common Principles 
on Data Policy, including concise plans for data management and sharing as part of 
research grant proposal, or provide explicit reasons why data sharing is not possible 
or appropriate.  
 
Data sharing plans may include details of:  
 
• Data areas and data types - the volume, type and content of data that will be 
generated, e.g. experimental measurements, records and images;  
• Standards and metadata - the standards and methodologies that will be adopted for 
data collection and management, and why these have been selected;  
• Relationship to other data available in public repositories;  
• Secondary use - further intended and/or foreseeable research uses for the completed 
dataset(s);  
• Methods for data sharing - planned mechanisms for making these data available, e.g. 
through deposition in existing public databases or on request, including access 
mechanisms where appropriate;  
• Proprietary data - any restrictions on data sharing due to the need to protect 
proprietary or patentable data;  
• Timeframes - timescales for public release of data;  
• Format of the final dataset.  
• Applicants may claim justifiable costs associated with data sharing activities, which 
should be captured in the application proforma and in Justification of Resources 
statement.  
 
Please note that preliminary data and descriptions of the proposed work belong in ‘the 
project’ section of the application form and should not be included in the data sharing 
statement.  
 
12. Guidance on Journal-based metrics 
As part of our commitment to support the recommendations and principles set out by 
the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA; 
https://sfdora.org/read/), UKRI reviewers and panel members are advised not to use 
journal-based metrics, such as journal impact factors, as a surrogate measure of the 
quality of individual research articles, to assess an investigator’s contributions, or to 
make funding decisions. 
 
The content of a paper is more important than publication metrics, or the identity of 
the journal, in which it was published, especially for early-stage researchers. 
Reviewers and panel members are encouraged to consider the value and impact of 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
18 
 
all research outputs (including datasets, software, inventions, patents, preprints, 
other commercial activities, etc.) in addition to research publications. We advise our 
peer reviewers and panel members to consider a broad range of impact measures 
including qualitative indicators of research impact, such as influence on policy and 
practice. 
 
13. Submission process 
The deadline for submission of a completed application including all supporting 
documentation is 16:00 UK time on 13 September 2019. Proposals submitted after 
the deadline will not be considered for funding. 
The deadline applies to all parts of your application, including the uploading of 
fully completed supporting documentation. Any applications which are not 
submitted in full by the deadline, with all required supporting documents, will be 
considered ineligible. There will be no return for amendment stage in this call.  
Applicants for all calls must submit a completed online application form which includes 
the uploading of supporting information. 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-fund-
impact-scheme 
The online form allows applicants to enter information and save it for a later date until 
final submission. There are strict character limits for each section which cannot be 
exceeded. 
In addition to filling in the online form, applicants are required to upload the following 
documents, as described, by the deadline. As above, late submission of supporting 
documents, or submission of documents which do not comply with these 
requirements, will render the application ineligible. The documents are: 
• 
Project Leaders’ CVs (up to two sides of A4 each) 
• 
The appropriate detailed project budget form as per guidance on the webpage 
(templates available on the British Council call webpage)  
• 
Letters of support from the UK and partner country Project Leaders’ institutions 
in English, on headed paper, dated within 3 months of the submission, signed 
by the Head of Institution, Head of Department or other person with appropriate 
delegated authority, expressing specific commitment to the proposed project, 
willingness to receive funding, a description of any in-kind support to be given 
and describing why the experience and capability of the Principal Applicant is 
particularly suited to the project content. Please note that supporting letters 
must not be signed by the Principal Applicants. 
• 
If the proposal is submitted by one of the Co-Leaders of the project, the 
application should include the letter of support from the Project Lead specifying 
the Grant ID number and former Call for applicants the grant was submitted to. 
• 
If the proposal includes project partners/associated partners, a pdf file 
combining together signed letters on letter headed paper dated within 3 
months of the submission, from each partner containing a maximum of 300 
words on the expertise they will bring to the project and the role they will 
take. There is only one slot for uploading project partners/associated partners 
letter, so all supporting letters must be submitted as a combined document. 
Links to partner websites should be included if applicable.  Letters from every 
project partner/associated partner listed in the application must be provided. 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
19 
 
Any other documents uploaded with your application or sent late or separately will be 
not be considered, unless these are specified in Appendix 1. 
Applications must be in English. 
To assist you in developing your application and sharing content with your partners, a 
Word version of the online application form will be available for download from the 
call website from 18th July. This is solely to allow you to develop your responses in a 
convenient format. The final version of your application must be submitted using the 
online form. 
If you experience problems with the online submission system, please contact  
UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org before the submission deadline. If you alert us to 
technical issues after the deadline, we will not be able to take them into consideration 
when assessing the eligibility of your application. 
Before the completed online application form can be submitted to the system, 
applicants will be asked to confirm on the form that they have: 
• 
obtained permission to submit the proposal on behalf of the UK institution(s) 
and of the partner country institution(s). This must be confirmed by attaching 
Letters of Support from the respective institutions signed by the Head of 
Institution, Head of Department or other person with appropriate delegated 
authority. 
• 
confirmed the Project Leaders’ Institutions, (i.e. the Lead Institutions’) 
willingness to receive the funds and to sign a grant agreement with the British 
Council or receive an offer letter from UKRI or the national partner, also 
confirmed in the Letters of Support. 
• 
complied with British Council or UKRI (as appropriate) policies on prevention 
of fraud, bribery, money laundering and addressed any other financial and 
reputational risk that may affect a transparent and fair grant award process. 
See: https://www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/transparency/policies/anti-
fraud-and-corruption 
https://www.ukri.org/files/termsconditions/ukri-counter-fraud-and-bribery-
policy-pdf/ 
Once the online application is submitted, the system will generate a unique 
application ID number. Applicants should note this number and use it in all 
communications with the British Council. Applicants who have not received this ID 
number should contact the British Council at UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org. UKRI 
successful applicants will then receive an additional UKRI grant reference number 
with the offer letter. 
 
14. Applicant screening 
In order to comply with UK government legislation, the British Council may at any point 
during the application process, carry out searches of relevant third-party screening 
databases to ensure that neither the applicant institutions nor any of the applicants’ 
employees, partners, directors, shareholders is listed: 
• 
as an individual or entity with whom national or supranational bodies have 
decreed organisations should not have financial dealings 
• 
as being wanted by Interpol or any national law enforcement body in connection 
with crime 
• 
as being subject to regulatory action by a national or international enforcement 
body 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
20 
 
• 
as being subject to export, trade or procurement controls or (in the case of an 
individual) as being disqualified from being a company director, and/or 
• 
as being a heightened risk individual or organisation, or (in the case of an 
individual) a politically exposed person. 
If the applicant or any other party is listed in a Screening Database for any of the 
reasons set out above, the British Council will assess the applicant as ineligible to 
apply for this grant call. 
The applicant must provide the British Council with all information reasonably 
requested by the British Council to complete the screening searches. 
Please read the text to this effect on the application form and tick the box to show that 
you understand this. 
 
15. Selection process 
Selection begins with an eligibility check by the British Council and UKRI against the 
eligibility criteria given in these Guidelines, including Appendix 1 (Country specific 
guidance) and the Eligibility Checklist at Appendix 2). This will include the ODA 
compliance of the proposal. This will be done using the Official Development 
Assistance (ODA) definitions established by the OECD and guidance developed by 
the Newton Fund with advice from the UK Department for International Development, 
see http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/. All proposals must clearly 
articulate a plausible pathway to positive impact of the research on the lives of low-
income populations and to a contribution to the economic development and social 
welfare of the partner country within a reasonable timeframe (10 years). If the proposal 
is deemed not to meet this essential criterion, it will be rejected for UK Newton funding 
however high the quality of the proposed research. 
Applicants will be given five working days to appeal against eligibility outcomes on the 
basis of administrative errors only and will not be given the opportunity to amend the 
proposal. 
Eligible proposals then undergo independent peer review on the basis of potential to 
impact realisation, quality, fit to development needs and country priorities, capacity 
building potential and likely sustainability of the collaboration, as follows: 
 
15.1 Thematic panels 
Proposals will first go to Thematic Panels following application checking and the 
appeals process. The purpose of these expert review panels will be to assess the 
quality and impact of the proposals. Applications will go to one of five panels based on 
their thematic area. These will be: arts and humanities; medical and biomedical 
science; engineering and physical sciences; environmental and agricultural sciences; 
and social sciences. If we have a low number of applications under a particular topic 
then we may combine panels.  
 
Please indicate on your application form which Review Panel should assess the 
proposal and select up to three subject areas in priority order. We reserve the right to 
allocate your proposal to a different Review Panel. 
 
These thematic panels are assessment panels comprised of impact and subject 
specialists with a range of expertise wide enough to cover the broad spread of the 
proposals being assessed. The panel which an application will be assessed at will be 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
21 
 
based on the proposed work rather than that carried out under the previous grant. 
These panels will not focus on the technical details of the original research beyond 
where relevant to extension of impact, but they may consider any technical details 
concerned with the new proposal. Each panel will produce a rank ordered list of 
proposals for the thematic area concerned including proposals from all countries 
ranked based on the criteria in Appendix 3, resulting in an overall score between 0 and 
60. Those receiving a final score from the Panel meeting of less than 30 will be 
considered not fundable. However, achieving an average score equal to or above the 
threshold does not mean that the proposal will be funded.  
 
15.2 Tensioning panel 
Following the individual thematic panels, the panel chairs will be brought together in a 
“tensioning” panel. The purpose of this panel is to ensure that the criteria and scoring 
have been applied consistently across all thematic panels, meaning that no subject 
areas are at a disadvantage. Proposals will not be re-assessed at this panel. This panel 
will produce individual rank ordered lists by country that include all thematic areas. 
 
15.3 Moderation panels 
After the thematic panels and final score/ranking decision by the tensioning panel 
(where required), each country will have a separate moderation panel that covers all 
subject areas. The purpose of the moderation panel is to seek agreement from the 
partner funders that they agree to fund the projects following the order of the ranked 
list produced by the tensioning panel. Some partner country funding partners will 
undertake a parallel assessment process in-country. Where this is the case the results 
of this will be factored in during the moderation panel.  
  
The number of projects to be funded will be limited by the match received for that 
country. This number may be reduced if not enough proposals meet a minimum quality 
threshold of 30. Partner funders will not only fund projects that they have funded 
previously. The moderation panels are designed to ensure that the highest quality 
proposals will be funded.   
 
Proposals must be funded in the order agreed by the moderation panel.  
 
Changes to the ranking list will only be made based against the following criteria: 
 
• 
Expert testimony to the importance of particular local challenges – we would 
expect this to be development experts and not necessarily academic experts 
in the field. 
• 
National policy objectives. 
• 
Trade-offs or synergies with the existing Newton portfolio. 
• 
Consideration of the thematic coverage of the existing portfolio. 
• 
Highly ranked proposals from a country’s parallel assessment process (where 
they have one). 
• 
Additional translational considerations/sustainability issues that the original 
applicant may not have been aware of.  
Any changes made to the final ranking in this way will be accompanied by a statement 
justifying the change based on the defined characteristics and referring to evidence. 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
22 
 
Moderation panel chairs plus other UK representation need to agree that the provided 
justification is sufficient.  
 
Once decisions have been made at the moderation panel and signed off by all 
partner funders, British Council and UKRI will inform applicants of outcome 
decisions.  
 
16. Data protection 
How we use your information 
The British Council will use the information that you provide for the purposes of 
processing your application, making any awards, monitoring and review of any grants.  
We may share all application data with UK Research and Innovation (UKRI), the 
Academy of Medical Sciences, the British Academy, the Met Office, the Royal 
Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society and with our funding partners in the partner 
country in order to assist with management of the application process. We will share 
anonymized aggregated information with the UK Department for Business, Energy and 
Industrial Strategy (BEIS). Any decisions on successful grants will be made in 
collaboration with them. 
The British Council and UKRI comply with the General Data Protection Regulations 
2016/679 (EU) GDPR). We process and handle personal information according to 
these regulations. The personal information that you provide on this form will only be 
used for the processing of your application. The information will be viewed by British 
Council, UKRI staff and those who are part of the decision-making process. Your 
information will not be used/shared beyond the partners listed above for any other 
purpose without your specific consent. British council and UKRI reserve the right to 
publish and share anonymized aggregated information with stakeholders.  
Organisation details, where collected, are used for monitoring and evaluation and 
statistical purposes. Gender information and country of origin, where collected, is used 
solely for statistical purposes. If we need to contact you, we will do so using the contact 
details you have provided. 
Under UK Data Protection law, you have the right to ask for a copy of the information 
we hold on you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information. 
If you want more information about this, please contact your local British Council office 
or the Data Protection Team inforgovernance@britishcouncil.org or see our website: 
http://www.britishcouncil.org/privacy-cookies/data-protection. For details of the UKRI 
data protection policy and UKRI privacy notice please see:  
https://www.ukri.org/files/termsconditions/ukri-data-protection-policy-pdf 
and 
https://www.ukri.org/privacy-notice/ 
 
17. Contractual Requirements 
• 
For British Council and other Newton Fund Delivery Partners existing and former 
grantees, excluding UK Research and Innovation grantees, the contracting authority 
is the British Council which includes any subsidiary companies and other 
organisations that control or are controlled by the British Council from time to time 
(see: www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/structure/status).  
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
23 
 
• 
For UK Research and Innovation previously funded and existing grantees, the 
contracting authorities will be the Research Councils and Innovate UK depending on 
the area of proposed impact. 
• 
The successful applicants will be expected to undertake activities in the UK and in the 
Newton Fund countries listed in section 2 of these guidelines (Scope of the 
Programme). 
• 
Both the British Council and UKRI are subject to the requirements of the UK 
Freedom of Information Act, (“FOIA”). Please indicate in your application whether 
FOIA also applies to your organisation, so that we can reflect this in the Grant 
Agreement should you be successful in your application. 
• 
The British Council’s contractual approach in respect of the grant is provided to 
download at:  
https://www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-fund-
impact-scheme 
• 
UKRI (Research Councils) grant terms and conditions can be found here: 
https://www.ukri.org/files/legacy/news/grant-fec-tcs-january-2018-v1-pdf/ 
• 
Successful UKRI current and previous grant holders will have to re-apply through Je-
S (FTP for Innovate UK applicants). This is only for administration purposes.  
• 
No changes can be made to proposals at this point unless requested by the 
panel and proposals will not be reassessed at this stage. More information on 
resubmission will be provided to successful applicants at the time.  
• 
(Terms and Conditions of the Grant Agreement) (“Grant Agreement”).  By 
submitting a response to this call for applications, you are agreeing to be 
bound by the terms of these guidelines and the Grant Agreement without 
further negotiation or amendment. 
• 
In the event that you have any concerns or queries in relation to the Grant 
Agreement, you should submit a clarification request to UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org 
in accordance with the provisions of this call for applications by the application 
deadline. The British Council reserves the right not to make any changes to the Grant 
Agreement. 
• 
The British Council is under no obligation to consider any clarifications/amendments 
to the Grant Agreement requested following the application deadline. 
• 
Monitoring and evaluation will be in line with standard reporting requirements of the 
awarding organisations. Research focused proposals will be required to complete 
annual Researchfish reporting. All awards will be required to complete a case study 
template to enable a case study to be written about the award. UKRI and British 
Council reserve the right to include additional monitoring requirements. More 
information will be provided to successful award holders .   
 
18. Contact details 
All queries or comments about this call should be addressed to the Newton Fund 
Impact Scheme email address: UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org. 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
24 
 
APPENDIX 1: COUNTRY SPECIFIC GUIDANCE AND 
ELIGIBLITY CRITERIA 
To ensure optimal fit to the local context and development needs, priority areas, 
specific innovation challenges and additional application requirements – such as 
maximum grant sizes and durations – have been set at a country level through 
discussion with national stakeholders. 
This appendix provides country specific guidance which applicants should consider in 
conjunction with the main body text of this document before preparing their proposals. 
Proposals which do not take into account the country specific guidance cannot be 
considered for funding. 
 
 
 
2.  Brazil  
Co-funder: 
Fapesp, Confap, Sebrae, Adesampa, FAS, APPOA, 
Science and Technology Museum from PUC-RS, 
FA.VELA, Instituto Cultural Polen, Cidade Escola 
Aprendiz, SOF, CTI, Embrapii, Museu do Amanhã. 
Duration of grants: 
24 months 
Size of grant: 
Maximum 200.000 GBP (each project). See below for 
exceptions with FAPEPI and FAPES funded grants.   
Areas of impact/national 
strategies 
Public policy in health, projects linked to innovation, 
agriculture technology, climate change, renewable 
energy, governance, society & conflict, infrastructure, 
education, inclusive economic growth, demographic 
changes, and others. 
 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council and UKRI will pay the costs of the UK organisations and Brazilian co-
funders will pay the costs of local partners 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
Eligible institutions are those covered by the following funding bodies:  
1) FAPESP (São Paulo state)* 
2) FAPEMIG (Minas Gerais state)** 
3) Fundação Araucária (Paraná state)*** 
4) FAPDF (Distrito Federal)**** 
5) FAPEAM –  (Amazonas state)** 
6) FAPESB (Bahia)** 
7) FAPEPI (Piaui)** 
8) FAPES (Espirito Santo)** 
9) Sebrae  
10) Adesampa 
11) FAS 
12) APPOA 
13) Science and Technology Museum from PUC-RS  
14) FA.VELA 
15) Instituto Cultural Polen  
16) Cidade Escola Aprendiz  
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
25 
 
17) SOF  
18) CTI  
19) Embrapii 
20) Museu do Amanhã  
 
Some FAPs may have their own Guidelines associated to this Announcement. 
Interested parties are advised to consult with their supporting FAP before preparing a 
proposal. 
*For proposals submitted to FAPESP the applicant in Brazil must be associated to a 
Higher Education or Research Institution, public or private non-profit research and 
development institutes/centres in the State of São Paulo, Brazil. FAPESP will check 
the eligibility of São Paulo (FAPESP) proposals before the analysis process of British 
Council and UKRI  
**For proposals submitted to other States, whose FAP has signed the Programme with 
CONFAP, the applicant in Brazil must be associated to Higher Education or Research 
Institution. 
*** It is recommended that the proposals from Paraná state (Fundação Araucária) 
should be aligned with the new local research and innovation arrangements. 
**** It is recommended that the proposals from Distrito Federal (FAPDF) should be 
aligned with one of the three themes: nanotechnology; biotechnology and information 
technology. 
 
The UK funding partners will cover up to 100,000 GBP paid to the UK lead institution. 
All Brazilian partner funders (with the exception of FAPEPI and FAPES) will cover up to 
100,000 GBP paid to the Brazilian lead institution. FAPEPI will fund up to 25,000 GBP 
which will be matched by 25,000 GBP by the UK funding partners. FAPES will fund up 
to 50,000 GBP which will be matched by 50,000 GBP by the UK funding partners. 
 
Other considerations: 
Priority areas for impact: public policy in health, projects linked to innovation, agriculture 
technology, climate change, renewable energy, governance, society & conflict, 
infrastructure, education, inclusive economic growth, demographic changes, and others 
 
Submission process (if requiring additional steps): 
Principal Applicants from the Brazilian states of Minas Gerais and São Paulo must also 
submit their application to the local funding agencies, respectively, FAPEMIG 
(https://fapemig.br/pt/ ) and FAPESP (http://www.fapesp.br/). There should be no 
material changes to the application submitted to FAPEMIG and FAPESP. Any 
differences should only be related to translation and meeting requirements of FAPEMIG 
and FAPESP application forms. 
 
 
2.  Name of country (add a table for each participating country) 
Co-funder: 
National Research Fund (NRF), Kenya 
Duration of 
grants: 
12 months 
Size of 
grant: 
Maximum 100,000 GBP  
National Research Fund will cover up to £50,0000, paid to the 
Kenyan lead institution. 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
26 
 
The UK funding partners will cover up to £50,000 paid to the UK lead 
institution. 
Areas of 
impact/nati
onal 
strategies: 
Applicants should look at the ‘Big Four’ – food security, affordable 
housing, manufacturing and affordable healthcare for all. 
In line with: 
a) Kenya Vision 2030: https://vision2030.go.ke/ 
b) The Big Four Agenda: https://big4.delivery.go.ke/ 
c) Kenya Research Priorities 2018-2011: 
https://www.nacosti.go.ke/images/docs/2019/National%20Resear
ch%20Priorities.pdf 
 
Contractual arrangements:  
NRF will sign contract and disburse funding to Kenya Lead institutions for all projects 
funded under Impact Scheme and manage all the projects funded under the Scheme.  
 
British Council will sign contract and disburse funding to UK lead institutions for the 
projects that were previously managed by the British Council and non-UKRI Newton 
delivery partners.  
 
UKRI will issue grant offer letters and disburse funding to UK Lead Institutions for the 
projects that were previously managed by the members of UKRI.   
Additional eligibility criteria:  
Under this scheme, in addition to other partners that may be included in the 
partnership, inclusion of government institutes for research and policy institutions such 
as KARLO, KIRDI, KEMRI, KEFRI, KEWI, KEMFRI, NHC with clear objectives of their 
involvement is highly encouraged. 
Recipients of the RAEng LIF entrepreneurship capacity building programme will not be 
eligible for NFIS in Kenya.   
Other considerations: 
The call is open to current and past Newton-Utafiti projects. For the ongoing projects, 
the funding will be for maximising impact rather than continued research. 
Submission process (if requiring additional steps): 
 
 
 
 
2.  Malaysia 
Co-
funder: 
Malaysian Industry-Government Group for High Technology (MIGHT) 
Duratio
n of 
grants: 
Min 12 months, Max 18 months 
Size of 
grant: 
Maximum 150,000 GBP  
Areas 
for 
• 
Areas where we expect impact to be realised including but not 
limited to:  
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
27 
 
impact/
national 
strategi
es: 
o 
translation of the research outputs 
o 
knowledge exchange  
o 
technology transfer 
o 
innovation 
In line with:  
• 
National Education Blueprint (2015 – 2025) 
http://mohe.gov.my/muat-turun/awam/penerbitan/pppm-2015-
2025-pt/5-malaysia-education-blueprint-2015-2025-higher-
education 
• 
Recommendations from the mid-term review of 11th Malaysia 
Plan (2016-2020) published in 2018 
https://www.talentcorp.com.my/clients/TalentCorp_2016_7A6
571AE-D9D0-4175-B35D-
99EC514F2D24/contentms/img/publication/Mid-
Term%20Review%20of%2011th%20Malaysia%20Plan.pdf 
• 
National Policy on Science, Technology and Innovation (2013 
– 2020). https://www.mestecc.gov.my/web/wp-
content/uploads/2019/04/1.-NPSTI-2013-2020-English-1.pdf 
• 
National Policy on Industry 4.0 
https://www.miti.gov.my/miti/resources/National%20Policy%2
0on%20Industry%204.0/Industry4WRD_Final.pdf 
 
Contractual arrangements: 
 
MIGHT will sign contract and disburse funding to Malaysia Lead institutions for all 
projects funded under Impact Scheme. MIGHT will manage all the projects funded 
under Impact Scheme, regardless of the previous project’s Delivery Partners in 
Malaysia. MIGHT will support the costs of the Malaysian organisations up to 75,000 
GBP.  
British Council will sign contract and disburse funding to UK lead institutions for the 
projects that were previously managed by the British Council and other non-UKRI 
Newton UK delivery partners. British Council will support the costs of the UK 
organisations up to 75,000 GBP.  
UKRI will issue grant offer letters and disburse funding to UK Lead Institutions for the 
projects that were previously managed by the members of UKRI. UKRI will support the 
costs of the UK organisations up to 75,000 GBP.   
 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
• 
Capacity building component must be built into the project and no more than 30% 
of the total grant applied.  
o 
Main objective of the capacity building activities is to create, enhance and 
develop constituent’s capacity at country level including but not limited to 
research, translation, mastering of skills and technology, applying models 
and systems.   
o 
Capacity building activities must be relevant to the project and support 
the project in achieving the project objectives, and/or more extensively in 
achieving the impacts.  
o 
Capacity building activities are not meetings, forums, dialogues and 
attending conference or any events.  
o 
Target audience could be community leaders, community groups, 
industries, SMEs, researchers, government agencies, non-for-profit 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
28 
 
organisations, marginalised communities, project stakeholders, project 
beneficiaries and others that are identified by the applicants.  
o 
It is carried out by the applicants or hosted by the applicants and run by 
their partners or other experts in the areas identified by the applicants.  
o 
Activities should be held in Malaysia. However, if the technology for the 
activities are only available in the UK, the activities can be held in the UK. 
Applicants who are considering organising the activities in the UK should 
provide concrete evidence and demonstrate tangible benefits to 
Malaysia. 
o 
Applicants would need to provide a clear justifications and methodology 
in running, monitoring and evaluating capacity building activities including 
procurement process if external experts/trainers are sought. Value for 
money will be a priority in the assessment of the proposed activities.  
• 
At least 50% of the previous grant has been spent on the Malaysian side.  
• 
The Scheme is open to all programmes including mobility grants and researcher 
links. For on-going projects, only projects that are completed by 30 June 2020 is 
eligible to apply for the Scheme. 
 
Other considerations: 
 
Submission process (if requiring additional steps): 
Please elaborate the project’s capacity building activities, justifications, methodology 
and monitoring and evaluation of the activities, procurement process in the (Activity 
section) of the application form. Please include the costs of the activities in the budget 
template. Please use the heading “Capacity Building” when elaborating the plan and 
costs. 
 
 
2.  Mexico 
Co-funder: 
Secretaría de Educación, Ciencia, Tecnología e 
Innovación de la Ciudad de México (SECTEI). 
Duration of grants: 
12 to 24 Months. 
Size of grant: 
Up to 160,000 GBP per collaboration, jointly funded by 
SECTEI and the Newton Fund  
Areas for 
impact/national 
strategies: 
✓ National priorities include ensuring economic, 
social and/or environmental impact in the 
following areas: Earth Sciences, health, energy, 
future cities, Agritech, biotechnology, social 
sciences. 
✓ The following impact-orientated strategies are 
considered desirable by SECTEI:  
▪ 
Inclusion of local communities in project 
development.  
▪ 
Capacity building activities focusing on 
involved individuals or institutions.  
▪ 
Communication of results targeting involved 
individuals or institutions.  
▪ 
Implementation of proved technology 
advances as solutions to specific 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
29 
 
problematics under the described priority 
areas. 
✓ In order to promote systemic solutions from 
innovation, proposed bi- national working groups 
are encouraged to be interdisciplinary and should 
consider the participation of at least one additional 
associate partner in Mexico. 
 
Contractual arrangements: 
SECTEI will sign contract and disburse funding up to 80,000 GBP to Mexican Lead 
institutions for all projects funded under Impact Scheme.  
British Council will sign contract and disburse funding up to 80,000 GBP to UK lead 
institutions for the projects that were previously managed by the British Council and 
other non-UKRI Newton UK delivery partners.  
UKRI will issue grant offer letters and disburse funding up to 80,000 GBP to UK Lead 
Institutions for the projects that were previously managed by the members of UKRI.  
 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
The co-funders for Mexico will require additional eligibility criteria to be applied to 
Mexican applicants. Further information will follow and be included in an updated 
version of this document.   
Other considerations: 
Additional co-funders will be confirmed. Further information will follow and be included in 
an updated version of this document.   
Submission process (if requiring additional steps): 
The co-funders for Mexico will require additional information to be submitted to them. 
Further information will follow and be included in an updated version of this document.   
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
30 
 
APPENDIX 2: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CHECKLIST 
Eligibility criteria checklist 
The application 
The application has been submitted by the applicants by the published deadline. 
 
The application has been submitted by a Project Leader in the UK and a Project Leader 
based in one of the partner countries listed in Appendix 1. 
 
At least one of the Project Leaders and their institution are currently or have been 
previously Newton Fund grantees.  
 
 
If applicants are submitting applications relating to UKRI grants or grants for which 
activities have not been completed yet, a list of eligible calls (for the original grant) is 
below:  
 
Brazil 
AHRC - Social Change through Creativity and Culture 2015  
BBSRC -  UK-Brazil Virtual Joint Centres in Agricultural Nitrogen  
ESRC -   Sustainable Urban Development 
ESRC -  Social Science of the Nexus 
ESRC -  Healthy Cities 
Innovate UK - Bilateral innovation in energy, water and waste competition 
Innovate UK - Urban innovation in Brazil competition 
MRC - UK-Brazil May 2015: UK-Brazil Neglected Infectious Diseases Partnership 
MRC - MRC-CONFAP Call for Health Systems Research Networks 
MRC - UK-São Paulo/Brazil: Neglected Infectious Diseases Joint Centre Partnerships 
NERC - Sustainable Gas Futures  
NERC - Understanding and Sustaining Brazilian Biome Resources  
NERC - Security of Supply of Mineral Resources - MarineE-tech 
NERC - Security of Supply of Mineral Resources - SoS RARE 
RCUK - RCUK CONFAP Research Partnerships 
Kenya 
MRC - UK-Kenya Joint Partnership on Non-Communicable Diseases 
Malaysia 
Innovate UK - Research and Innovation Bridges 
Innovate UK - Sustainable cities innovation challenge competition 
MRC - UK Malaysia Newton June 2016 
MRC - UK-Malaysia Joint Health Research Call in Non-Communicable Diseases 
RCUK - Joint Call Small Scale Research Partnerships with South East Asia (2016 - 
2018) 
Mexico 
Innovate UK - Collaborative R&D Call 
RCUK – Newton Mexico Call 2015 
 
British Academy:  
Brazil Newton Mobility Grants 2014  
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
31 
 
                         
6 https://www.innovateuk.org/-/catapult-centres 
Brazil Newton Mobility Grants 2015 
Brazil Newton Mobility Grants 2016 - Round 1 
Brazil Newton Mobility Grants 2017 - Round 3 
 
British Council: 
For completed projects under Researcher Links, Research Environment Links, 
Institutional Skills Development, Institutional Links, Dengue Tech Challenge, and grants 
disbursed under the professional development and engagement programme.  
In addition, we will accept applications from ongoing Institutional Links projects with a 
grant ending before March 2020 
 
Royal Academy of Engineering: 
 
Leaders in Innovation Fellowships 
 
Project Leaders are based at either: 
• 
a not-for-profit higher education institution with the capacity to undertake high-
quality research 
• 
a research institution with the capacity to undertake high-quality research 
• 
a Catapult Centre6 (for non-UKRI applications only) 
• 
an alternative institution as detailed in Appendix 1 
• 
a UK business  
If unsure, please contact  
UK-NFIS@britishcouncil.org.  
 
The applicants have included two (2) supporting letters, one from each of the two Lead 
Institutions, on headed paper, signed by the Head of the Institution, Head of Department 
or other person with appropriate delegated authority, giving specific commitment to the 
project as described in Section 11 of these Guidelines. Supporting letters are not signed 
by the Principal Applicants. 
 
The applicants have included a supporting letter from the former Project Leader – only 
applicable for applications submitted by former Co-Leaders  
 
Applicants have submitted a detailed budget request using the appropriate budget 
spreadsheet provided – including Innovate UK budget forms where applicable  
 
If there are project partners/associated partners, a letter from each partner has been 
uploaded as required within a single pdf. 
 
Each section of the application form has been completed in full and complies with 
instructions given. 
 
The application form and supporting documents have been completed in English. 
 
The Project Leaders have submitted only one (1) application under this Newton Fund 
Impact Scheme as Project Leader. 
 
CVs have been submitted for the Project Leaders from both countries and any Co-
Leaders. 
 
An ODA compliance statement has been provided 
 
A gender equality statement has been provided 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
32 
 
A data management plan has been provided 
 
Ethics forms have been completed (where applicable) 
 
If the partner country Lead Institution is affiliated in any way with a higher education or 
research institution in another country, (e.g. UK, USA), the proposal includes other 
eligible higher education or research institutions in the partner country (for non-UKRI 
proposals only). 
 
The budget 
For Malaysia only: The budget requested under “other research related costs” is 30% or 
less of the total budget requested (unless specified otherwise in Appendix 1). 
 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
33 
 
APPENDIX 3: ASSESSMENT CRITERIA AND SCORING 
SYSTEM 
Assessment of the quality and development relevance and support to gender equality 
of the proposals will be performed by expert reviewers, and the final funding decisions 
will be made in discussion with British Council country office and in country partners. 
Only proposals that have clearly articulated relevance to economic development and 
social welfare of the partner country will be considered for funding. In addition, only 
proposals with a minimum score of 30 points or more for Sections 3 to 5 are considered 
fundable.  
Section 1: Relevance to economic development and social welfare 
Score 
Range 
 
YES/NO 
• 
Clear evidence is provided demonstrating that the suggested 
impacts assessed are relevant to the lives of vulnerable 
people/low income populations in a DAC country. 
• 
Clear evidence is provided demonstrating that the project will 
contribute to the economic development and social welfare of the 
partner country and within a reasonable timeframe (within 10 
years). 
• 
Development-relevant stakeholders and beneficiaries are 
defined, and the project plan includes an engagement plan. 
 
 
 
Section 2: Relevance to gender equality 
Score 
Range 
 
YES/NO 
• 
Measures are in place to ensure equal and meaningful 
opportunities for people of different genders to be involved 
throughout the project. This includes the development of the 
project, the participants of the research and innovation, and the 
beneficiaries of the research and innovation.  
• 
The project will have a positive impact on people of different 
genders, both throughout the project and beyond.  
• 
The potential impact on the relations between people of different 
genders and people of the same gender is clearly described. For 
example, changing roles and responsibilities in households, 
society, economy, politics, power, etc.  
• 
Risks and unintended negative consequences on gender 
equality will be monitored, avoided or mitigated against.  
• 
Relevant outcomes and outputs will be measured with 
disaggregated data by age and gender (where disclosed). 
 
 
 
Section 3: Impact 
Score 
Range 
 
0-25 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
34 
 
• 
The proposal clearly articulates a plausible pathway between the 
outputs of the previous project, and an extended and 
demonstrable form of impact.  
• 
The benefits, relevance and innovative nature of the project 
outputs are clearly described and have potential to realise 
significant benefit and impact for in-country partners and users.  
• 
The project design and methodology are coherent in relation to 
the proposed impact. 
• 
Appropriate dissemination and impact strategies are in place, 
this can include the extent to which plans are in place to extend 
collaboration once the grant has ended.  
• 
The project is informed by high quality research/evidence. 
• 
The collaboration supports project’s capacity to translate 
research into economic or societal benefit, for example through 
establishing new relationships with non-academic partners, or 
setting up new processes for technology transfer. 
 
 
Section 4: Proposal 
Score 
Range 
 
0–25 
• 
The description of the proposed collaboration includes clear, 
achievable and realistic objectives. 
• 
Applicants clearly articulate specific outputs anticipated from the 
collaboration and objectives likely to be achieved. 
• 
There is strong evidence of support from the applicants’ 
institutions and Affiliated Partners (where applicable). 
• 
The proposal includes a clear and feasible description of the 
arrangements for project managing the collaboration and 
communication between partners. 
• 
There is evidence of a genuine and equitable collaboration 
• 
The proposal represents value for money; all costs are fully 
justified if not they can be removed from the grant. 
• 
The Project Leaders and their team have sufficient relevant 
experience to undertake the proposed research collaboration 
and achieve the stated impact. 
• 
The collaborating institutions are of appropriate 
academic/technical standing. 
 
 
Section 5: Sustainability and capacity building 
Score 
Range 
 
0–10 
  
 
 
 
NEWTON FUND IMPACT SCHEME – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS JULY 2019 
VERSION 0.1 
35 
 
• 
The potential in terms of professional development and capacity 
building for researchers, innovation practitioners and other 
individuals participating in the collaboration is clearly described. 
• 
The proposal includes a clear and feasible description of how the 
participating institutions/organisations intend to sustain their 
collaboration over the longer term. 
• 
The proposal includes feasible management and monitoring 
plans, including staff time commitments. 
 
 
Total score for quality assessment 
(Section 3+ Section 4 + Section 5) 
Score 
Range 
 
0–60 
 
 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
1 
 
 
ERC - CONFAP - Chamada CNPq 
Oportunidades de pesquisa na Europa para pesquisadores com doutorado em atividade 
no Brasil 
1. OBJETIVO: 
O Conselho Nacional das Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa - CONFAP e o Conselho 
Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq) convidam pesquisadores do Brasil a 
buscar colaborações de pesquisa com pesquisadores principais já apoiados por subsídios do 
Conselho Europeu de Pesquisa (ERC) financiados pela UE. 
2. CONTEXTO: 
A presente chamada para manifestação de interesse é lançada no âmbito do: 
•  Acordo de Implementação entre a Comissão Europeia e o Conselho Nacional das Fundações 
Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP) para fornecer oportunidades de pesquisa na Europa 
para pesquisadores brasileiros, assinado em 13 de outubro de 2016, e 
•  Acordo Administrativo entre a Direção Geral de Pesquisa e Inovação da Comissão Europeia (DG 
RTD), por um lado, e o Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico e Tecnológico (CNPq), 
a Financiadora de Estudos e Projetos (FINEP) e o Conselho Nacional das Fundações Estaduais 
de Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP), por outro lado, sobre os mecanismos de apoio à cooperação 
UE-Brasil em atividades de pesquisa e inovação, assinados em 22 de maio de 2018. 
3. PESQUISADORES ELEGÍVEIS: 
Os pesquisadores elegíveis do Brasil são: 
• Pesquisadores ativos no Brasil, detentores de título de doutorado, que estejam implementando 
atividades de pesquisa dentro de universidades, institutos ou centros de pesquisa brasileiros. 
Critérios adicionais de elegibilidade podem ser solicitados pelas Fundações de Pesquisa que devem, 
nesses casos, publicar diretrizes específicas. 
4. MODALIDADES: 
A Agência Executiva do ERC (ERCEA) forneceu uma lista de Pesquisadores Principais financiados pelo 
ERC interessados em receber pesquisadores brasileiros nas suas equipes de pesquisa, por períodos 
curtos ou mais longos (até 12 meses). 
Os projetos financiados pelo ERC, que estão abertos a acolher pesquisadores brasileiros, cobrem 
uma vasta gama de áreas científicas e foram selecionados pela Comissão Europeia e pelo ERC, nos 
seguintes painéis de avaliação: 
a. Biologia Molecular e Estrutural e Bioquímica 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
2 
 
 
b. Genética, Genômica, Bioinformática e Biologia de Sistemas 
c. Biologia Celular e do Desenvolvimento 
d. Fisiologia, Fisiopatologia e Endocrinologia 
e. Neurociências e Distúrbios neurais 
f. Imunidade e Infecção 
g. Ferramentas Diagnósticas, Terapias e Saúde Pública 
h. Biologia Evolutiva, Populacional e Ambiental 
i. Ciências da vida aplicadas e biotecnologia não médica 
j. Matemática 
k. Constituintes Fundamentais da Matéria 
l. Física de matéria condensada 
m. Ciências Químicas Físicas e Analíticas 
n. Química Sintética e Materiais 
o. Ciência da Computação e Informática 
p. Engenharia de Sistemas e Comunicação 
q. Engenharia de Produtos e Processos 
r. Ciências do Universo 
s. Ciência do Sistema Terrestre 
t. Mercados, Indivíduos e Instituições 
u. Instituições, Valores, Crenças e Comportamento 
v. Meio Ambiente, Espaço e População 
w. A mente humana e sua complexidade 
x. Culturas e Produção Cultural 
y. O estudo do passado humano 
z. Sinergia 
4.1 Modalidades de implementação: 
Manifestação de Interesse de Pesquisadores do Brasil 
I. Os pesquisadores elegíveis deverão acessar o portal on-line, disponível no link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login  e preencher os itens relacionados 
abaixo. 
a. Nome e sobrenome; 
b. CPF 
c. Instituição: universidade, instituto ou centro de pesquisa onde as principais atividades de 
pesquisa são realizadas; 
d. Estado brasileiro onde as principais atividades de pesquisa são realizadas; 
e. Subsídios ativos, projetos ou contratos em que o pesquisador está atualmente envolvido; 
f. Grau acadêmico; 
g. Contatos (email e telefone). 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
3 
 
II. Na sequência deste pedido, os pesquisadores elegíveis poderão acessar, dentro do mesmo 
portal, às informações sobre os projetos financiados pelo ERC que podem acolher os 
pesquisadores brasileiros interessados, incluindo a descrição dos respetivos projetos e contatos 
financiados pelo ERC. 
III. As propostas podem ser enviadas em parceria com projetos financiados pelo ERC que não estão 
incluídos na lista disponibilizada no portal, se foram acompanhados da evidência que o projeto 
possui vigência de 18 meses a partir do início das atividades colaborativas Brasil-ERC.  
IV. Pesquisadores do Brasil devem entrar em contato com o Pesquisador Principal que detém a 
concessão do ERC do projeto que é de seu interesse e devem chegar a um acordo sobre a 
possibilidade de se juntar à sua equipe de pesquisa, bem como definir conjuntamente um Plano 
de Trabalho e condições relacionadas. 
V. Os Pesquisadores do Brasil devem submeter sua proposta, no portal dedicado, seguindo os 
acordos firmados com o Pesquisador Principal titular do ERC e de acordo com as orientações do 
Item no. 6. 
VI. A avaliação das propostas será feita pelas FAPs participantes, com a coordenação do CONFAP e 
do CNPq. 
VII. Os resultados serão então comunicados ao ERC e ao Pesquisador Principal titular da subvenção 
do ERC, e posteriormente publicados. 
 
5. FINANCIAMENTO: 
Os intercâmbios científicos terão início no segundo semestre de 2019 e poderão ser realizados num 
prazo mais extenso (isto é, com a duração de 6 a 12 meses) ou divididos em visitas múltiplas e mais 
curtas, ou seja, para realizar experiências conjuntas ou atividades de pesquisa semelhantes. 
Pesquisadores elegíveis do Brasil continuarão a ter seus salários e/ou bolsas de estudos de acordo 
com os termos e condições de sua instituição. As Fundações de Amparo da Pesquisa estaduais que 
participarem da presente chamada ou o CNPq fornecerão suporte para despesas de viagem. 
Os pesquisadores visitantes do Brasil, que serão incorporados nas equipes de pesquisa dos 
Pesquisadores Principais financiados pelo ERC (na Instituição anfitriã do projeto do ERC), durante o 
período da visita, poderão receber apoio da subvenção do ERC, sendo esse financiamento negociado 
e definido pelos Pesquisadores Principais financiados pelo ERC e pelos pesquisadores do Brasil. 
Espera-se que os Pesquisadores Principais financiados pelo ERC estabeleçam e decidam com 
antecedência, com o pesquisador visitante do Brasil, as condições de pesquisa, que devam oferecer 
um ambiente propício para as visitas de pesquisa e estar em consonância com a legislação nacional 
aplicável e quaisquer outras regras e regulamentos aplicáveis à instituição de acolhimento. 
Os custos, que poderão ser reembolsados sob subvenção do ERC, devem ser elegíveis nos termos 
da subvenção e o montante máximo da subvenção do ERC não pode ser aumentado para esse efeito. 
As categorias de custo financiáveis incluem: 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
4 
 
a) custos de diárias, ou qualquer outra modalidade aplicável da Instituição Anfitriã, de 
acordo com a legislação nacional aplicável e quaisquer outras regras ou regulamentos aplicáveis à 
Instituição Anfitriã, proporcionais ao nível individual de experiência do pesquisador visitante.  
b) quaisquer outros custos elegíveis incorridos durante a visita dos Pesquisadores do Brasil 
que estejam diretamente relacionados com o projeto financiado pelo ERC. 
 
6. ORIENTAÇÕES PARA SUBMISSÃO DE PROPOSTAS 
Depois de contatar os beneficiários do ERC, segundo as orientações detalhadas no item 4.1, as 
propostas devem incluir todos os documentos listados abaixo: 
1. Curriculum Vitae; 
2. Plano de Trabalho, instalações e recursos que o Pesquisador Principal financiado pelo ERC e a 
Instituição Anfitriã fornecerão ao pesquisador visitante do Brasil; 
3. Carta de Aceitação da Universidade ou Centro de Pesquisas de origem do pesquisador do Brasil; 
4. Carta de Aceitação do Pesquisador Principal financiado pelo ERC, indicando o seu consentimento 
em integrar o Pesquisador do Brasil na sua equipe, na sua proposta e Plano de Trabalho; 
5. Carta de Aceitação da Instituição de Anfitriã na Europa, que confirmará a disponibilidade para 
receber o pesquisador do Brasil nos termos e prazos previstos no Plano de Trabalho. 
Pesquisadores do Brasil devem, em primeira instância, entrar em contato com a sua respectiva FAP 
ou o CNPq para verificar se orientações adicionais específicas são fornecidas. 
Pesquisadores 
do 
Brasil 
devem 
enviar 
suas 
propostas 
no 
link 
da 
chamada: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login. 
 
Pesquisadores dos Estados de São Paulo, Minas Gerais e Pernambuco devem enviar suas propostas 
dentro do link da chamada mencionado acima e também diretamente para: 
FAPESP: http://www.fapesp.br/12711, seguindo as diretrizes específicas da FAPESP. 
FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/home/index seguindo as diretrizes específicas da FAPEMIG. 
FACEPE: 
http://www.facepe.br/facepe-lanca-chamada-conjunta-erc-european-research-council-
confap-cnpq/ seguindo as diretrizes específicas da FACEPE. 
7. AVALIAÇÃO: 
Os critérios de avaliação baseiam-se no critério único de Excelência Científica, em coerência e em 
alinhamento com as subvenções do ERC. 
A Excelência Científica deve considerar a formação acadêmica, qualidade, publicações, 
desenvolvimento tecnológico, participação em projetos públicos, privados, nacionais ou 
internacionais. 
A Excelência Científica também deve considerar o Plano de Trabalho, bem como o impacto e a 
importância da colaboração para o contexto brasileiro. 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
5 
 
Originalidade, inovação e viabilidade também devem ser avaliadas neste contexto. 
 
8. PRAZOS: 
I. Expressão de Interesse: os pesquisadores interessados do Brasil devem expressar seu interesse 
em ter acesso a informações sobre os projetos financiados pelo ERC dentro do prazo: 29 de 
maio de 2019. 
II. Proposta completa: as propostas completas, abrangendo todos os documentos solicitados no 
Item no. 6, devem ser apresentadas dentro do prazo: 30 de junho de 2019. 
Os resultados serão publicados em: 
Página do CONFAP: http://www.confap.org.br/ 
Página do CNPq: http://www.cnpq.br/ 
 
9. FUNDAÇÕES DE AMPARO A PESQUISA BRASILEIRAS 
De acordo com as modalidades de financiamento detalhadas no Item no. 5, a presente chamada é 
apoiada pelo CNPq e pelas seguintes Agências de Financiamento estaduais: 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco- FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF  
4. Alagoas - FAPEAL 
5. Amapá – FAPEAP 
6. Amazonas – FAPEAM 
7. Goiás - FAPEG 
8. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
9. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
10. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
11. Piauí - FAPEPI 
12. Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS 
13. Rio de Janeiro - FAPERJ 
14. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
15. Bahia - FAPESB 
16. Santa Catarina – FAPESC 
17. São Paulo – FAPESP 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
6 
 
18. Pará - FAPESPA 
19. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
20. Sergipe – FAPITEC 
21. Ceará - FUNCAP 
22. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
10. INFORMAÇÕES ADICIONAIS: 
Contato para assistência e suporte: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com  
Mais informações sobre "equipes do ERC abertas ao mundo": 
https://erc.europa.eu/managing-your-project/set-and-develop-your-team 
Versão em inglês disponível no link:  http://confap.org.br/pt/editais/28/erc-confap-cnpq-call-2019 
  
 SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE CIÊNCIA, TECNOLOGIA E INOVAÇÃO 
FUNDAÇÃO DE APOIO À PESQUISA DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
 
 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
Granja do Torto Lote 4 Parque Tecnológico Biotic 3º andar CEP: 70.636.000 
Telefones: 55 61 3462-8804 
 
DIRETRIZES FAPDF  
Chamada 2019 ERC, CONFAP e CNPq 
 
Oportunidades de pesquisa na Europa para pesquisadores com doutorado em 
atividade no Distrito Federal 
 
REQUISITOS ESPECÍFICOS PARA PROPOSTAS SUBMETIDAS À FAPDF 
 
1. Objetivo da Chamada 
Convidar pesquisadores do Distrito Federal, com título de doutor, a buscar colaborações de 
pesquisa com pesquisadores principais já apoiados por subsídios do Conselho Europeu de 
Pesquisa (ERC) financiados pela União Europeia. 
 
2. Número de propostas e prazos 
a. A FAPDF financiará nesta Chamada até 10 propostas, estando esse número condicionado à 
disponibilidade orçamentária e financeira; e 
b. As propostas financiadas pela FAPDF poderão ser executadas a partir da publicação do 
resultado final até dezembro de 2020. 
 
3. Itens financiáveis 
O apoio ocorrerá por meio de: 
a. Passagens aéreas internacionais de ida e volta, em classe econômica, para os trechos de 
Brasília ao país do grupo de pesquisa europeu. Passagens adicionais terrestre e fluviais 
podem ser cobertas, caso sejam necessárias para se chegar ao local de trabalho do grupo 
europeu; e 
b. Seguro-viagem. 
 
Os itens financiáveis poderão ser utilizados para visitas múltiplas (até 03 visitas durante o período 
de 12 meses) ou para períodos de permanência de 6 a 12 meses.  
 
Os custos de subsistência do pesquisador do Distrito Federal no exterior deverão ser 
contrapartida do grupo de pesquisa anfitrião, da proponente ou do próprio pesquisador. 
 
4. Apoio Financeiro  
a. O recurso alocado para financiamento desta Chamada é de R$ 100.000,00 (cem mil reais). 
b. Cada proposta poderá solicitar até R$ 10.000,00 (dez mil reais). 
c. Cada pesquisador poderá ser contemplado uma única vez nesta Chamada. 
 
5. Contrapartida do Proponente 
a. Após a assinatura do TOA o proponente torna-se, automaticamente, consultor ad hoc desta 
Fundação; e 
b.  Após o término da pesquisa para a qual foi concedido o apoio financeiro, o proponente terá 
12 (doze) meses para desenvolver atividade técnica ou pedagógica, com carga horária total 
mínima de 4 horas, conforme instrução normativa a ser publicada por esta Fundação. 
 
 
  
 SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE CIÊNCIA, TECNOLOGIA E INOVAÇÃO 
FUNDAÇÃO DE APOIO À PESQUISA DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
 
 
Fundação de Apoio à Pesquisa do Distrito Federal 
Granja do Torto Lote 4 Parque Tecnológico Biotic 3º andar CEP: 70.636.000 
Telefones: 55 61 3462-8804 
 
6. Contratação e liberação dos recursos 
a. A contratação das propostas ocorrerá de acordo com a disponibilidade financeira da FAPDF. 
b. A liberação dos recursos dar-se-á na forma estabelecida no TOA e após a sua assinatura pelas 
partes envolvidas seguida da publicação no Diário Oficial do Distrito Federal-DODF. 
 
7. Prestação de Contas 
A prestação de contas dos recursos recebidos se dará dentro das normativas estabelecidas pelo 
Marco Legal de Inovação (Lei nº 10.973/2004, recepcionada no DF pela Lei nº 6140/2018 e 
regulamentado pelo Decreto 39.570/2018). 
 
 
A íntegra desta Chamada pode ser observada no endereço eletrônico www.fap.df.gov.br 
 
ALEXANDRÉ ANDRÉ DOS SANTOS 
Diretor Presidente 
  
 
 
 
1 
 
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY CALL 
 
The call opens on May 21st, 2018 and will close on July 31st, 2018.  
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated through the Brazilian National Council of State  
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal offering support to researchers from Brazil, 
based in Brazilian higher education and research institutions, who are willing to working in research in 
Italy, in collaboration with local colleagues. 
The present call is based on the Cooperation Agreement between CONFAP and the University of Bologna, 
acting as Technical Secretariat of the network of Italian Universities. 
The objective of the agreement is to facilitate and support effective collaboration between the Parties for 
scientific, technological and innovation cooperation, through the mobility between the two countries of 
PhD students, Master students (Mestrado or Laurea Magistrale students) and post-docs.  
The call offers support for researchers in Brazil through Scholarships. 
The Scholarship Awards offer an opportunity for researchers associated to universities and research 
institutes in Brazil to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups through research 
collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the best research groups in Italy.  
This call, launched by CONFAP, may be complemented by specific Guidelines issued by each one of the  
participating FAPs. 
Such specific Guidelines must be consulted before preparing a proposal. The FAPs associated to this call 
are listed in section 6. 
1 Eligibility   
 
1.1. Eligible researchers based in universities and research institutions from the Brazilian States 
participating in this call are: 
a) PhD students  
b) Master students   
c) Post-doctoral  researchers  
  
 
 
 
2 
 
1.2. The supporting FAPs, listed under section 6 of the present call, may require additional eligibility 
criteria, which will be announced in their respective guidelines, in association with this call. 
Applicants must consult their respective FAPs before starting to prepare a proposal. 
1.3. All applicants must have a supervisor associated to a university in Italy.  
1.4. Eligible host institutions in Italy are indicated in the MCI website, under the section dedicated to 
academic opportunities for Brazilian candidates: 
http://www.mci.unibo.it/en/brazilian-candidates/academic-opportunities 
2 Support offered 
2.1 
Support is offered in the form of Scholarship Awards, which may include different funding 
components, according to the Guidelines of the respective FAPs supporting this call.  
2.2 
The support offered within the present call will include: 
a) For Master Students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
b) For Doctoral students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
c) Post-doctoral research. 
2.3 
No tuition fees will be charged by any side for any exchange mobility. 
2.4 
The values of the monthly scholarships will be indicated in the specific Guidelines issued by the 
respective FAPs which support the present call. (listed under Item 6 of the present call) 
2.5 
Additional requirements:  
In case of mobility in the frame of projects with potential commercial value and from which 
industrial and intellectual property rights may arise, the host and the sending institutions are 
required to sign a specific collaboration agreement settling these matters. Such specific 
collaboration agreements will take into account applicable national legislations and international 
conventions. 
3 How to Apply 
 
a) For researchers outside the State of São Paulo applications are available at: http://sigconfap.ledes.net 
(available from the 21st of May 2018).  
  
 
 
 
3 
 
b) Researchers from the State of São Paulo must send proposals directly to FAPESP. Please follow the 
specific guidelines for FAPESP at http://www.fapesp.br/11763 
For further information, please contact confap.mci@gmail.com  
4 Timeline 
 
Announcement 
May 21st, 2018 
Deadline for submission 
July 31st, 2018 
Results 
September 28th, 2018 
 
5 Selection criteria  
 
5.1 
All applications will be assessed through a peer review process carried out by each of the 
participating FAPs, according to the following criteria: 
a) 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
b) 
The academic performance and specific requirements  indicated by the participating FAPs. 
c)         The academic performance of the supervisor at the host institution. 
d) 
The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
e) 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
f) 
The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Italian host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
5.2 
Each participating FAP may announce its specific selection criteria in their respective 
Guidelines associated to this call.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
4 
 
6 Supporting FAPs: 
 
The following Brazilian State Funding Agencies support the present call: 
 
- 
Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
- 
Pernambuco- FACEPE 
- 
Federal District - FAPDF  
- 
Alagoas - FAPEAL 
- 
Amazonas - FAPEAM 
- 
Goiás - FAPEG 
- 
Maranhão  - FAPEMA 
- 
Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
- 
Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
- 
Piaui - FAPEPI 
- 
Rio Grande do Sul - FAPERGS 
- 
Espírito Santo - FAPES 
- 
Bahia - FAPESB 
- 
Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
- 
São Paulo - FAPESP 
- 
Paraíba - FAPESQ 
- 
Sergipe - FAPITEC 
- 
Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
  
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE ECONOMIA, DESENVOLVIMENTO, 
INOVAÇÃO, CIÊNCIA E TECNOLOGIA DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
FUNDAÇÃO DE APOIO À PESQUISA 
 
 
 
Granja do Torto, Lote 4, Parque Tecnológico BioTic, 3º andar, 70.636-000  
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY 
1. OBJETO 
A Chamada Mobility Confap Italy (MCI) oferece suporte para que pesquisadores 
brasileiros desenvolvam os pontos fortes e a capacidade de seu grupo de pesquisa 
através de treinamento, colaboração e visitas recíprocas com um pesquisador 
parceiro da Itália, subsidiado por bolsas de estudo.  
 
2. OBJETIVO  
 
O objetivo do acordo é facilitar e apoiar a colaboração eficaz entre as partes para 
cooperação científica, tecnológica e de inovação, através da mobilidade entre os 
dois países (Brasil e Itália).  
As bolsas de estudo oferecem uma oportunidade para pesquisadores ligados a 
universidades e institutos de pesquisa brasileiros desenvolverem suas pesquisas 
com colaboração de um pesquisador da Itália.  
 
3. CRITÉRIOS DE ELEGIBILIDADE: 
 
Para fins de submissão da proposta é importante seguir os seguintes critérios de 
elegibilidade:  
 
3.1 DO PROPONENTE: 
a) Ter nacionalidade brasileira ou estrangeira com RNE (Registro Nacional de 
Estrangeiro) permanente;  
b) Ser residente e domiciliado no Distrito Federal ou RIDE-DF;   
c) Ter cadastro atualizado, no Sistema de Informação e Gestão de Projetos – 
SIGFAP da FAPDF;   
d) Estar adimplente com a FAPDF, o Governo do Distrito Federal e o Governo 
Federal; 
 
3.1.1 Bolsa para estudantes de mestrado;  
 Estar regularmente matriculado em instituições de ensino superior públicas ou 
privadas, sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF;  
 Apresentar anuência do orientador e coordenador do curso;  
 Será concedida 01 (uma) bolsa por um período de até 3 meses. 
  
SECRETARIA DE ESTADO DE ECONOMIA, DESENVOLVIMENTO, 
INOVAÇÃO, CIÊNCIA E TECNOLOGIA DO DISTRITO FEDERAL 
FUNDAÇÃO DE APOIO À PESQUISA 
 
 
 
Granja do Torto, Lote 4, Parque Tecnológico BioTic, 3º andar, 70.636-000  
 
3.1.2 Bolsa para estudantes de doutorado;  
 Estar regularmente matriculado em instituições de ensino superior públicas ou 
privadas, sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF;  
 Apresentar anuência do orientador e coordenador do curso;  
 Será concedida 01 (uma) bolsa por um período de até 3 meses.  
 
3.1.3 Bolsa para pesquisadores pós-doutorais;  
 Possuir vínculo laboral com instituições de ensino superior de pesquisa 
tecnológica e inovação, públicas ou privadas, sem fins lucrativos, sediadas no DF; 
 Será concedida 01 (uma) bolsa por um período de até 3 meses. 
  
3.2 DA INSTITUIÇÃO: 
a) Instituições Públicas ou Privadas de Ensino, Pesquisa, institutos e centros de 
pesquisa;  
b) Sede e Administração no Distrito Federal;  
c) Constituída sob as Leis brasileiras. 
 
4. APOIO FINANCEIRO  
 
a) Para a presente Chamada serão destinados recursos no valor total de R$ 
100.000,00 (cem mil reais), para despesas de custeio, a serem liberados de acordo 
com a disponibilidade orçamentária e financeira da FAPDF.   
 
b) O valor máximo a ser financiado por proposta é de: 
 
 Para Mestrado: 
 Bolsa mensal de R$ 6.000,00 
 Bilhete aéreo (ida e volta em classe econômica). 
 
 Para Doutorado: 
 Bolsa mensal de R$ 8.000,00 
 Bilhete aéreo (ida e volta em classe econômica). 
 
 Para Pós-Doutorado: 
 Bolsa mensal de R$ 10.000,00 
 Bilhete aéreo (ida e volta em classe econômica). 
 
 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
1 
 
 
ERC – CONFAP – CNPq Call - Second Round 2018 
Research opportunities in Europe for active PhD researchers from Brazil 
 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP and the National 
Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq ) invite researchers from Brazil 
to pursue research collaborations with Principal Investigators already supported through 
EU-funded European Research Council (ERC) grants. 
. 
2. BACKGROUND: 
The present call for Expression of Interest is launched in the framework of: 
 The Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the 
Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) to provide research 
opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers, signed on the 13th of October 2016, 
and 
 The Administrative Arrangement between the Directorate-General for Research and 
Innovation of the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one side, and the Brazilian 
National  Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the Brazilian 
Funding Agency for Studies (FINEP) and Projects and the Brazilian National Council 
of  State Funding Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, on the mechanisms to 
support EU-Brazil cooperation in research and innovation activities, signed on the 
22nd of May 2018. 
 
3. ELIGIBLE RESEARCHERS: 
Eligible researchers from Brazil are: 
 Active researchers from Brazil, holding a PhD, who are implementing research 
activities within Brazilian universities, institutes or research centers. 
Additional eligibility criteria may be requested by the supporting Funding Agencies, which 
shall, in such cases, publish specific guidelines.  
 
4. MODALITIES: 
The ERC Executive Agency (ERCEA) has provided a list of ERC-funded principal 
investigators interested in hosting Brazilian Researchers in their research teams, for short 
or longer periods (up to 12 months). 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
2 
 
ERC-funded projects, which are open to hosting Brazilian researchers, cover a wide range 
of scientific fields and have been selected by the European Commission and the ERC, within 
the following evaluation panels: 
 
a. Molecular and Structural Biology and Biochemistry  
b. Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics and Systems Biology  
c. Cellular and Developmental Biology  
d. Physiology, Pathophysiology and Endocrinology  
e. Neurosciences and Neural Disorders  
f. Immunity and Infection  
g. Diagnostic Tools, Therapies and Public Health 
h. Evolutionary, Population and Environmental Biology 
i. Applied life Sciences and Non-Medical Biotechnology 
j. Mathematics  
k. Fundamental Constituents of Matter 
l. Condensed Matter Physics 
m. Physical and Analytical Chemical Sciences 
n. Synthetic Chemistry and Materials  
o. Computer Science and Informatics 
p. Systems and Communication Engineering  
q. Products and Processes Engineering 
r. Universe Sciences  
s. Earth System Science  
t. Markets, Individuals and Institutions 
u. Institutions, Values, Beliefs and Behaviour  
v. Environment, Space and Population  
w. The Human Mind and Its Complexity  
x. Cultures and Cultural Production  
y. The Study of the Human Past  
z. Synergy 
 
4.1 Modalities of implementation: 
 
Expression of Interest of Researchers from Brazil 
I. 
Eligible researchers shall need to access the online portal, available at the link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login and fill in the items listed below.  
a. Name and Surname 
b. CPF 
c. Institution: university, institute or research centre where the main research 
activities are carried out 
d. Brazilian State where the main research activities are carried out 
e. Active grants, projects or  contracts in which the researcher is currently 
involved 
f. Academic degree 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
3 
 
g. Contacts (email and phone) 
II. 
Following such request, eligible researchers will be able to access, within the same 
portal, information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian 
researchers, including the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and 
contacts. 
III. 
Researchers from Brazil have to contact the Principal Investigator holding the ERC 
grant of the project that is of interest and must reach with him an agreement on the 
possibility of joining his research team, as well as jointly define a Work Plan and 
related conditions. 
IV. 
Researchers from Brazil have to submit their proposal, in the dedicated portal, 
following agreements taken with the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant and 
according to the orientations in Item no. 6. 
V. 
Assessment of the proposals shall be done by the participating FAPs with the 
coordination of CONFAP and by CNPq. 
VI. 
Results are then communicated to the ERC and to the Principal Investigator holding 
the ERC grant, and are subsequently published. 
 
5. FUNDING: 
Scientific exchanges shall start from the second semester of 2018 and can be either 
performed on a more extended timeframe (i.e. lasting 6 to 12 months) or be divided in 
multiple and shorter visits, i.e. to perform joint experimentation or similar research activities. 
Eligible researchers from Brazil will continue to receive their salaries and/or scholarship 
according to their institutional terms and conditions. The Brazilian State Funding Agencies 
participating in the present call or CNPq will provide support for travel expenses.  
Visiting researchers from Brazil which shall be incorporated into the research teams of the 
ERC-funded Principal Investigators (at the Host Institution of the ERC project), for the 
duration of the visit, may receive support from the ERC grant, and such funding shall be 
negotiated and defined by the ERC funded Principal Investigators and the researchers from 
Brazil. 
The ERC-funded Principal Investigators are expected to establish and decide in advance, 
with the visiting researcher from Brazil, the research conditions, which should offer an 
enabling environment for the research visits and be in line with the applicable national law 
and any other rules and regulations applicable on the Host institution. 
The costs, which can be reimbursed under the ERC grant, must be eligible within the terms 
of the grant and the maximum amount of the ERC grant cannot be increased for this 
purpose. 
Eligible cost categories include: 
a) subsistence costs on a per diem basis, or any other applicable modality of the Host 
Institution, in accordance with the applicable national law and any other rules or 
regulations applicable on the Host Institution, commensurate to the level of 
experience of the individual visiting researcher; 
b) any other eligible costs incurred during the visit of the researchers from Brazil that 
are directly related to the ERC-funded project. 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
4 
 
 
6. ORIENTATIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS  
 
After having contacted the ERC Grantees, following orientations detailed in item 4.1, 
proposals must include all the documents listed below: 
1. Curriculum Vitae; 
2. Work Plan, facilities and resources that the ERC-funded Principal Investigator and 
Host Institution shall provide to the visiting researcher from Brazil; 
3. Letter of Acceptance from the University or Research centre of Origin of the 
researcher from Brazil; 
4. Letter of Acceptance from the ERC-funded Principal Investigator, indicating his 
consent on integrating the researcher from Brazil in his team and on his proposal and 
Work Plan; 
5. Letter of Acceptance from the Host Institution in Europe, which confirms the 
availability to receive the researcher from Brazil in the terms and timing foreseen in 
the Work Plan. 
Researchers from Brazil should, in first instance, contact their respective FAP or CNPq 
in order to verify if specific additional orientations are provided.  
Researchers from Brazil must submit their proposals within the Call’s link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login.  
Researchers from the State of São Paulo and from the State of Minas Gerais must send 
proposals within the Call’s link mentioned above and also directly to: 
FAPESP: www.fapesp.br/11794, following the specific guidelines for FAPESP. 
FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/, following the specific guidelines for FAPEMIG. 
 
7. ASSESSMENT: 
Assessment criteria are based on the unique criteria of Scientific Excellence, in coherence 
and in order to be aligned with ERC grants. 
Scientific Excellence shall consider the academic background, quality, publications, 
technological development, participation in public, private, national or international funded 
projects. 
Scientific excellence shall also consider the Work Plan, which is presented as well as the 
impact and importance of the collaboration for the Brazilian context. 
Originality, innovation and feasibility shall also be assessed in this framework. 
 
8. SECOND ROUND OF THE 2018 CALL 
The first round of the ERC – CONFAP – CNPq has closed on the 31st of August 2018.   
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
5 
 
For complete proposals received within the deadline of the 31st of August 2018 (Item 4.1 – 
sub-Item IV), evaluation shall follow to the assessment phase – first round (Item 9, sub-item 
IV). 
Researchers who have presented their expressions of interest within the deadline of the 31st 
of August 2018 (Item 4.1 – sub-item I), may submit their complete proposals within the 
framework of the current call ERC – CONFAP – CNPq call – Second Round (Item 9, sub-
item III). 
All eligible complete proposals submitted within the deadline of the 10th of October 2018 
must include all the documents requested in Item no. 6. 
Evaluation of such proposals shall be done during the assessment phase – second round 
(Item 9, sub-item V). 
 
9. CALL CALENDAR AND DEADLINES: 
 
I. 
Opening of the Call: 10th of September 2018 
II. 
Presentation of expressions of Interest: 19th of September 2018 
III. 
Presentation of full proposals: 10th of October 2018 
IV. 
Assessment first round: 1st of October 2018 
V. 
Assessment second round: 3rd  of November 2018 
Results shall be published on: 
CONFAP’s webpage: http://www.confap.org.br/ 
CNPq’s webpage: http://www.cnpq.br/ 
 
10. SUPPORTING BRAZILIAN FUNDING AGENCIES: 
According to the funding modalities detailed in Item no. 5, the present call is supported by 
CNPq and by the following Brazilian State Funding Agencies: 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco- FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF  
4. Alagoas - FAPEAL 
5. Amapá - FAPEAP 
6. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
7. Goiás - FAPEG 
8. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
9. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
6 
 
10. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
11. Piauí - FAPEPI 
12. Rio Grande do Sul - FAPERGS 
13. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
14. Bahia - FAPESB 
15. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
16. São Paulo - FAPESP 
17. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
18. Sergipe - FAPITEC 
19. Tocantins - FAPT 
20. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
11. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: 
Contact for assistance and support: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
 More information on ‘ERC teams open to the world':  
https://erc.europa.eu/managing-your-project/set-and-develop-your-team 
 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
1 
 
 
ERC – CONFAP – CNPq Call 
Research opportunities in Europe for active PhD researchers from Brazil 
 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP and the National Council for Scientific 
and Technological Development (CNPq ) invite researchers from Brazil to pursue research collaborations with 
Principal Investigators already supported through EU-funded European Research Council (ERC) grants. 
. 
2. BACKGROUND: 
The present call for Expression of Interest is launched in the framework of: 
 
The Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National 
Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian 
researchers, signed on the 13th of October 2016, and 
 
The Administrative Arrangement between the Directorate-General for Research and Innovation of 
the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one side, and the Brazilian National  Council for Scientific 
and Technological Development (CNPq), the Brazilian Funding Agency for Studies (FINEP) and 
Projects and the Brazilian National Council of  State Funding Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, 
on the mechanisms to support EU-Brazil cooperation in research and innovation activities, signed on 
the 22nd of May 2018. 
 
3. ELIGIBLE RESEARCHERS: 
Eligible researchers from Brazil are: 
 
Active researchers from Brazil, holding a PhD, who are implementing research activities within 
Brazilian universities, institutes or research centers. 
Additional eligibility criteria may be requested by the supporting Funding Agencies, which shall, in such 
cases, publish specific guidelines.  
 
4. MODALITIES: 
The ERC Executive Agency (ERCEA) has provided a list of ERC-funded principal investigators interested in 
hosting Brazilian Researchers in their research teams, for short or longer periods (up to 12 months). 
ERC-funded projects, which are open to hosting Brazilian researchers, cover a wide range of scientific fields 
and have been selected by the European Commission and the ERC, within the following evaluation panels: 
 
a. Molecular and Structural Biology and Biochemistry  
b. Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics and Systems Biology  
c. Cellular and Developmental Biology  
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
2 
 
d. Physiology, Pathophysiology and Endocrinology  
e. Neurosciences and Neural Disorders  
f. Immunity and Infection  
g. Diagnostic Tools, Therapies and Public Health 
h. Evolutionary, Population and Environmental Biology 
i. 
Applied life Sciences and Non-Medical Biotechnology 
j. 
Mathematics  
k. Fundamental Constituents of Matter 
l. 
Condensed Matter Physics 
m. Physical and Analytical Chemical Sciences 
n. Synthetic Chemistry and Materials  
o. Computer Science and Informatics 
p. Systems and Communication Engineering  
q. Products and Processes Engineering 
r. Universe Sciences  
s. Earth System Science  
t. Markets, Individuals and Institutions 
u. Institutions, Values, Beliefs and Behaviour  
v. Environment, Space and Population  
w. The Human Mind and Its Complexity  
x. Cultures and Cultural Production  
y. The Study of the Human Past  
z. Synergy 
 
4.1 Modalities of implementation: 
 
Expression of Interest of Researchers from Brazil 
I. 
Eligible researchers shall need to access the online portal, available at the link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login and fill in the items listed below.  
a. Name and Surname 
b. CPF 
c. Institution: university, institute or research centre where the main research activities are 
carried out 
d. Brazilian State where the main research activities are carried out 
e. Active grants, projects or  contracts in which the researcher is currently involved 
f. Academic degree 
g. Contacts (email and phone) 
II. 
Following such request, eligible researchers will be able to access, within the same portal, 
information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers, including 
the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and contacts. 
III. 
Researchers from Brazil have to contact the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant of the project 
that is of interest and must reach with him an agreement on the possibility of joining his research 
team, as well as jointly define a Work Plan and related conditions. 
IV. 
Researchers from Brazil have to submit their proposal, in the dedicated portal, following agreements 
taken with the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant and according to the orientations in Item 
no. 6. 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
3 
 
V. 
Assessment of the proposals shall be done by the participating FAPs with the coordination of CONFAP 
and by CNPq. 
VI. 
Results are then communicated to the ERC and to the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant, 
and are subsequently published. 
 
5. FUNDING: 
Scientific exchanges shall start in the second semester of 2018 and can be either performed on a more 
extended timeframe (i.e. lasting 6 to 12 months) or be divided in multiple and shorter visits, i.e. to perform 
joint experimentation or similar research activities. 
Eligible researchers from Brazil will continue to receive their salaries and/or scholarship according to their 
institutional terms and conditions.The Brazilian State Funding Agencies participating in the present call or 
CNPq will provide support for travel expenses.  
Visiting researchers from Brazil which shall be incorporated into the research teams of the ERC-funded 
Principal Investigators (at the Host Institution of the ERC project), for the duration of the visit, may receive 
support from the ERC grant, and such funding shall be negotiated and defined by the ERC funded Principal 
Investigators and the researchers from Brazil. 
The ERC-funded Principal Investigators are expected to establish and decide in advance, with the visiting 
researcher from Brazil, the research conditions, which should offer an enabling environment for the research 
visits and be in line with the applicable national law and any other rules and regulations applicable on the 
Host institution. 
The costs, which can be reimbursed under the ERC grant, must be eligible within the terms of the grant and 
the maximum amount of the ERC grant cannot be increased for this purpose. 
Eligible cost categories include: 
a) subsistence costs on a per diem basis, or any other applicable modality of the Host Institution, in 
accordance with the applicable national law and any other rules or regulations applicable on the Host 
Institution, commensurate to the level of experience of the individual visiting researcher; 
b) any other eligible costs incurred during the visit of the researchers from Brazil that are directly related 
to the ERC-funded project. 
 
6. ORIENTATIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS  
 
After having contacted the ERC Grantees, following orientations detailed in item 4.1, proposals must 
include all the documents listed below: 
1. Curriculum Vitae; 
2. Work Plan, facilities and resources that the ERC-funded Principal Investigator and Host Institution 
shall provide to the visiting researcher from Brazil; 
3. Letter of Acceptance from the University or Research centre of Origin of the researcher from Brazil; 
4. Letter of Acceptance from the ERC-funded Principal Investigator, indicating his consent on 
integrating the researcher from Brazil in his team and on his proposal and Work Plan; 
5. Letter of Acceptance from the Host Institution in Europe, which confirms the availability to receive 
the researcher from Brazil in the terms and timing foreseen in the Work Plan. 
 
 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
4 
 
Researchers from Brazil should, in first instance, contact their respective FAP or CNPq in order to verify 
if specific additional orientations are provided.  
Researchers 
from 
Brazil 
must 
submit 
their 
proposals 
within 
the 
Call’s 
link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login.  
Researchers from the State of São Paulo and from the State of Minas Gerais must send proposals within 
the Call’s link mentioned above and also directly to: 
FAPESP: www.fapesp.br/11794, following the specific guidelines for FAPESP. 
FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/, following the specific guidelines for FAPEMIG. 
 
7. ASSESSMENT: 
Assessment criteria are based on the unique criteria of Scientific Excellence, in coherence and in order to be 
aligned with ERC grants. 
Scientific Excellence shall consider the academic background, quality, publications, technological 
development, participation in public, private, national or international funded projects. 
Scientific excellence shall also consider the Work Plan, which is presented as well as the impact and 
importance of the collaboration for the Brazilian context. 
Originality, innovation and feasibility shall also be assessed in this framework. 
 
8. DEADLINES: 
The interested researchers from Brazil should express their interest in having access information about the 
ERC-funded projects in a timely manner, in order to be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all 
the documents requested in Item no. 6, within the deadline: 31st of August 2018. 
Results shall be published on: 
CONFAP’s webpage: http://www.confap.org.br/ 
CNPq’s webpage: http://www.cnpq.br/ 
 
9. SUPPORTING BRAZILIAN FUNDING AGENCIES: 
According to the funding modalities detailed in Item no. 5, the present call is supported by CNPq and by the 
following Brazilian State Funding Agencies: 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco- FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF  
4. Alagoas - FAPEAL 
5. Amapá - FAPEAP 
                                   
                                   
                                                    
 
5 
 
6. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
7. Goiás - FAPEG 
8. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
9. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
10. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
11. Piauí - FAPEPI 
12. Rio Grande do Sul - FAPERGS 
13. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
14. Bahia - FAPESB 
15. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
16. São Paulo - FAPESP 
17. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
18. Sergipe - FAPITEC 
19. Tocantins - FAPT 
20. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: 
Contact for assistance and support: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
 More information on ‘ERC teams open to the world':  
https://erc.europa.eu/managing-your-project/set-and-develop-your-team 
 
 
 
