
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 1 
 
 
1. Context 
With the ending of the Science without Borders initiative, Brazil’s higher education international 
mobility programme has moved into a new phase emphasising the importance of 
internationalisation at home and the ability to operate effectively in English and other languages 
of host nations receiving researchers and academics.  
Surveys by Idiomas Sem Fronteiras show that only 3% of academics and researchers in 
Brazilian universities with post-graduate programmes have the C1 level of English under the 
Common European Framework. While there are pressures for more research to be published in 
English in scientific and other journals, and for universities to host more overseas academics, 
there are still considerable barriers to the improvement of English amongst academics, 
administrative staff and indeed students to enable this to happen. 
In the secondary education sector, the federal government has decided that English will be 
compulsory for all students aged between 11 and 17 from 2020. A basic national curriculum 
framework has been approved, and now individual states need to develop their own curricula in 
English and ensure that these are reflected in the way that teachers teach English. States also 
face considerable challenges in improving the level of English of the country’s 73,305 teachers 
(data from 2017) of English in the public sector in particular. 
The British Council in Brazil has focused on incentivising partnerships between Brazilian and 
UK Universities to assist with the process of internationalisation through a programme of 
collaborative calls and regional seminars. Given that improvement in the ability of academics, 
researchers and future students to operate effectively in English, we are now launching this 
opportunity for universities, colleges and English language providers from the UK to work with 
Brazilian Higher Education institutions (HEIs) – Federal Institutes and Universities - in tackling 
the barriers to more effective English language teaching (ELT) and learning (ELL).  
 
 
 
 
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 2 
2. The programme 
As part of its internationalisation agenda and in line with the two Capacity Building & 
Internationalisation calls1 in May 2017 and in December 2017, the British Council Brazil is 
pleased to launch its UK-Brazil English Collaboration Call.  The objective of this call is to 
foster research in ELL and ELT in Brazil, contributing to the design and implementation of 
innovative, sustainable and scalable practices in secondary and/or tertiary education. The 
funding will enable the development of new partnerships or strengthen existing cooperation 
between British colleges, universities and other private institutions, with Brazilian universities 
and federal institutes. The expected output is increased knowledge exchange and research 
aimed at tackling the bottlenecks to improving ELL and ELT in a country of the size of Brazil. 
The call will accept proposals in two research lines:  
● 
English language policies at the institutional level as a main component of the 
internationalisation process of HEIs aligned to the current ‘Internationalisation at home’ 
agenda; 
● 
Improving English language teaching and learning in the public school system at lower 
secondary and upper secondary levels2 (6th to 9th grade and 1st to 3rd form respectively). 
Research themes within this line can be: curriculum development, pre-service teacher 
training, the use of technology and assessment. 
The joint work between UK and Brazilian HEIs shall reflect a clear alignment and interest 
between institutions, which could lead to stronger formal agreements and partnerships in the 
future. An understanding of the local context and actions to respond to institutional 
arrangements and regulations in partner countries will add value to proposals.  
 
3. Specific objectives 
● 
Promote systematic investigation contributing to improvements and/or changes in ELL and 
ELT in Brazil; 
● 
Tackle key gaps in current knowledge regarding the above lines of research, seeking to 
inform and improve both policy and practice; 
● 
Strengthen strategic partnerships between Brazilian and UK HEIs. 
 
4. Expected outcomes 
 
● 
The dissemination of the research findings helps to inform Brazilian public policies around 
ELL and ELT; 
● 
Increased collaboration in the longer term between UK and Brazilian institutions helps to 
transform English language practices across Brazil. 
                                                           
1 Information on the two previous calls can be found on the following links:  
Capacity building internationalisation call – May 2017 and Capacity building internationalization call 
ABRUEM - Dec. 17  
  
2 For details on the structure of the Brazilian education system, please check page 15 of the British Council 
study “English in Brazil: an examination of policy, perceptions and influencing factors (2015)” available 
here.  
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 3 
5. Who can apply 
 
● 
Experienced researchers from Brazilian public and private universities, as well as federal 
institutes with a proven track record in English language related research; 
● 
Experienced researchers from UK universities, colleges and other private institutions with 
interest in the Americas region and proven track record in English language related 
research.  
 
6. Possible institutional arrangements 
6.1) Bilateral: an agreement between one UK institution and one Brazilian institution involved. 
This allows the possibility of having a shared administration of resources, if required, or full 
administration by either of the parties.  
6.2) Trilateral: an agreement between two Brazilian institutions and one UK institution or vice 
versa. Resources administered by the leading institution (i.e. in the case of two Brazilian 
institutions with one UK institution, it is the UK institution who will receive and administer the 
grant).   
* The administration of resources mentioned above refers specifically to funds granted by the 
British Council. The Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs) will only support bilateral 
arrangements.   
 
7. Partnership 
The British Council is partnering with the Brazilian National Council for State Funding 
Agencies (CONFAP), as well as the below participating FAPs. Therefore, for bilateral 
arrangements, Brazilian HEIs from the following States will receive the support of the local 
FAPs: 
• 
Paraná (Fundação Araucária); 
• 
Distrito Federal (FAPDF); 
• 
Alagoas (FAPEAL); 
• 
Amapá (FAPEAP); 
• 
Amazonas (FAPEAM); 
• 
Ceará (FUNCAP); 
• 
Goiás (FAPEG); 
• 
Maranhão (FAPEMA);  
• 
Mato Grosso (FAPEMAT); 
• 
Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG); 
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 4 
• 
Piauí (FAPEPI). 
Some of the participating FAPs may have their own guidelines associated to this 
announcement. Interested parties are strongly advised to consult with their supporting FAP 
before preparing a proposal. 
Up until 16 July – when applications open, other FAPs can be included to the list of participating 
FAPs. After this deadline, no other FAP will be included. 
  
8. Assessment 
The assessment process will be co-led by external evaluators as well as the British Council.  
Bilateral projects requesting match funding from FAPs will also be assessed by the respecting 
FAP. The final decision will therefore be taken by the British Council together with the 
respecting FAP. 
The proposals will be scored on the following criteria*: 
● 
Quality of the proposal; 
● 
Applicability; 
● 
Resources; 
● 
Alignment; 
● 
Expertise; 
● 
Matching funds, such as the support from the participating FAP or the UK or the 
Brazilian HEI. 
* For details on the criteria, please check section 12.1. Assessment criteria. 
Institutions offering match funding will be seen as strong supporters of the initiative and will 
receive higher scores in the Resources category.  
 
9. How to apply 
Proposals should be based on one of the lines of research identified in section 1. The 
programme should include a dissemination plan to share the research findings. Proposals must 
be presented jointly by a UK and a Brazilian institution and submitted via the British Council’s 
website. Support letters (on headed letter paper) from institutional authorities of the different 
institutions involved are required and must be uploaded in the relevant section. 
Complete the online application in English at the British Council Brazil portal. 
A Word Docx version of the application form is available from the download section.This is 
intended to give applicants knowledge of the questions in the online application form only, and 
cannot be used to submit an application. 
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 5 
* The application form, its Word Docx version, as well as the template for the project´s cost 
estimate will be available in the next few weeks. 
* The same institution can submit more than one proposal provided that the research 
coordinator is not the same for both. 
 
10. Funding 
The number of projects funded will be of at least 10. More projects may be granted funds 
according to funding availability. Requested grants should be for a maximum of £10,000 and be 
implemented within a period of up to 7 months. The grant can cover costs* including: 
● 
Faculty mobility – researchers, staff – with the purpose of knowledge exchange;  
● 
Costs of organising meetings, seminars, workshops, training; 
● 
Other activities to establish and strengthen collaborative links; 
● 
Travel and subsistence costs directly related to the operation of the project, including 
fieldwork. 
● 
Software licences.  
* Applications should not, at this stage, include requests for funding for conference 
presentations; if completion of the research project results in acceptance of a paper at an 
international conference, the British Council will consider supporting the attendance of one of 
the authors through a separate application. 
* For proposals receiving match funding from any of the participating FAPs, the requested grant 
should also be for a maximum of £10,000. The total amount will be disbursed in a 50% (British 
Council grant) - 50% (FAP match funding) formula. Initial 50% upon signature of the Grant 
Agreement – by the end of November 2018. And the remaining 50% upon agreement with the 
respecting FAP. Moreover, the FAP may define in its own guideline the costs eligible to be 
covered. 
* For trilateral agreements, the British Council is the sole provider of the grant funding. Match 
funding from the HEIs submitting proposals are more than welcome and will also count to the 
score points in the assessment. The requested grant should also be for a maximum of £10,000. 
For grants coming from the British Council, the disbursement will be made in a 90% - 10% 
formula. Initial 90% upon signature of the Grant Agreement – by the end of November 2018. 
And the remaining 10% after validation of a progress report comprising a narrative and the 
financial status – by end of February the latest.   
 
11. Reporting mechanisms and responsibilities: 
For the British Council: 
1. Progress report due three months after the start date briefly outlining progress on the 
project to date – financials plus narrative. 
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 6 
2. Final report. All grantees will be responsible for presenting a completed financial report 
and a final narrative during the last month of the project. The narrative should be 
presented as a formal report outlining the aims of the project, research questions, 
methodology, findings, discussion and recommendations for policy and practice. The 
narrative should be in publishable form in English with between 4,000 to 8,000 words.  
3. A two to three page summary of the research and its findings. This is due with the Final 
report and will appeal to readers with little technical knowledge, while still informing the 
expert reader.   
The templates for financial and narrative reports will be enclosed in the next few weeks. 
 
For the participating FAPs: 
1. The reporting mechanisms and responsibilities will be informed only to the approved 
projects on the moment of the signature between the Brazilian coordinator of the 
proposal and its FAP. 
 
12. Schedule 
Call launch 
21 June 2018 
Applications open 
16 July 2018 
Call closure 
21 September 2018 
Applications assessment 
24 September – 24 October 2018 
Results announcement 
31 October 2018 
Implementation period 
1 December 2018  – 1 July 2019 
 
 
13. Further information 
British Council: contato@britishcouncil.org.br  
CONFAP: chamadasuk.confap@gmail.com 
 
 
  
 
www.britishcouncil.org.br 
 
 7 
14. Assessment criteria 
 
Assessment criteria 
Weights (%) 
Eliminatory criteria 
Was the proposal submitted as per requirements of the 
call?   
n/a 
Quality of the 
proposal 
1. The proposal addresses an important problem or a 
critical 
barrier 
to 
progress 
in 
the 
field. 
2. 
The 
proposal 
adequately 
contextualises 
the 
proposed 
project. 
3. The proposal clearly outlines the aims of the project, 
as well as its methodology (design, participants, 
instruments, procedures) with sufficient detail to allow 
for 
a 
meaningful 
judgement 
on 
its 
value. 
4. 
Is 
the 
methodology 
likely 
to 
be 
feasible? 
5. Are the research questions clearly stated? 
30% 
Applicability 
1. The proposal clearly states its potential to inform 
policy 
and 
practice. 
2. A dissemination plan is clearly outlined and likely to 
be feasible. 
30% 
Resources 
Match funding allocated to the proposal 
25% 
Clear investment and calculation of required resources 
in the implementation of the plan 
Expertise 
The UK and Brazilian researchers have a proven track 
record in research and publication in the field of English 
language related research. 
15% 
 
 
