1  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
                                                          
  
  
 
 
NEWTON FUND RESEARCHER LINKS WORKSHOPS 
– GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2016 – 
 
1. Background  
The Newton Fund aims to build UK-partner country collaborations centred on shared research and 
innovation challenges which have direct relevance to Newton partner countries’ social welfare and 
economic development. 
Tackling global challenges – such as extreme weather conditions, urbanisation, access to 
affordable health care, food and energy security, and meeting the social and economic needs of a 
growing population – requires an integrated research and innovation approach, bringing together 
communities from different disciplines, sectors, and countries in high-quality collaborations. 
All Researcher Links-funded workshops will have the following three overarching objectives:  
• 
Support international development-relevant research – Workshops are intended to support 
research areas relevant to the economic development and welfare of partner countries.  
• 
Contribute to capacity building of early career researchers – The proposal must include a 
description of how the workshop will contribute to the personal and professional development 
of the participants. Workshop coordinators should indicate how they envisage this occurring, 
including any plans for long-term mentoring of early career researchers (either within each 
country, or cross-nationally).  
• 
Establish new research links or significantly develop existing links, with the potential for 
longer term sustainability – Coordinators must outline the specific outputs anticipated from 
the workshop. The aim of the workshop is to stimulate longer term links between the UK and 
partner countries, as well as to contribute to the personal and professional development of the 
participants. The workshop proposal should include an explanation of the mutual benefits to the 
UK and partner country researchers and institutions. They should also explore any potential 
longer term benefit that might arise, thinking about who might benefit and how they might 
benefit and describing the actions that will be taken to ensure that potential impact is realised.  
2. Overview of the funding opportunity 
Researcher Links Workshop grants are designed to provide financial support to bring together a 
UK/partner country bilateral cohort of early career researchers to take part in workshops to meet 
 2  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
the overarching objectives. The programme is supported by UK government and partner country 
funding and forms part of the Newton Fund 
(http://www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/researcher-links).  
Each workshop will be coordinated by two Leading Researchers1, one from each country, and will 
focus either on a specific research area or on an interdisciplinary theme (for example ‘Sustainable 
Cities’). Workshop coordinators can identify up to four additional Leading or Established  
Researchers1 (two from each country) to be involved in the workshop and act as mentors, but the 
remaining participants must be researchers at an earlier stage in their career.  
Proposals in any discipline/multidisciplinary area will be accepted (including the natural sciences, 
social sciences, arts and humanities). However, some countries have specified areas   (see Annex 
1 for country specific guidance).  
For-profit organisations and not-for-profit organisations (other than not-for-profit higher education 
institutions or publicly-funded research organisations) can participate in Researcher Links 
workshops but are usually not eligible to apply for Workshop grants. For-profit organisations are 
not eligible to receive any grant funds. Please see list of eligible UK research institutions here. 
Please contact us at UK-Researcherlinks@britishcouncil.org if you are in doubt about the eligibility 
of your institution.   
UK institutions can partner with institutions affiliated to other UK institutions (e.g. an overseas 
campus) to deliver workshops provided that the workshops also include other eligible higher 
education institutions or research organisations in the partner country. Applicants will need to work 
closely with and include early career researchers from the institutions based in the partner country 
that are not affiliated to a UK university.  
 
In the April 2016 call the following countries are inviting proposals for Researcher Links workshops:   
Brazil, Egypt, India, Mexico (to be confirmed), South Africa (to be confirmed), Turkey 
Please note that subsequent calls for proposals may involve different partner countries.  
3. Relevance to economic development and social welfare  
Researcher Links Workshops are intended to support research areas relevant to the development 
of partner countries.   
We define research with development relevance as research (applied or fundamental) that has the 
potential to contribute to the economic development and social welfare of low- and middle- income 
countries2, benefitting low income and vulnerable populations in these countries. In order to be 
considered for funding under this programme, all proposals must clearly articulate a 
plausible pathway showing how the research may lead to positive impact on these 
populations within a reasonable timeframe (within 3-15 years). Applications which do not 
meet this criterion cannot receive UK Newton Fund support. 
In some disciplines, development relevance can be longer-term and less direct than in other areas 
and impact may be societal. In all cases, it is the responsibility of the applicant to articulate how the 
research area or activity proposed will meet these criteria. Applicants should not expect reviewers 
to make assumptions about development impact that is not clearly described within the proposal. 
                                                
1 For an indication of profiles for the different categories of participants, we suggest applicants refer to the 
European Commission document ‘Towards a European framework for research careers’  
(http://ec.europa.eu/euraxess/pdf/research_policies/Towards_a_European_Framework_for_Research_Caree 
rs_final.pdf). Coordinators and mentors should be at ‘R4 – Leading Researcher’ level or ‘R3 – Established 
Researcher’ level, and early career participants at ‘R2 –Recognized Researcher’ level or at the beginning of 
R3 level.  
2 As defined by the OECD DAC list of official development assistance (ODA) 
recipients (http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/daclistofodarecipients.htm).  
 3  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
In order to show development relevance within the context of their proposed project, applicants 
are encouraged to include reference to any local or national consultation, links to government 
policies, and any links with government institutions. 
For more on our approach to ODA, please see http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/  
Agreements for ownership and exploitation of intellectual property generated through project 
activities must be consistent with the primary aim of addressing development issues. 
Under this call, the following research and innovation challenge areas will be given priority (unless 
specified further in Annex 1 for individual countries). Multidisciplinary proposals are welcome, 
and may include Social Sciences and Arts and Humanities. The challenge areas are as follows: 
o Agriculture (e.g. irrigation, crop yields)  
o Climate and environment (e.g. climate change, green technology, sustainable 
development, ecosystem services, resource scarcity)  
o Sustainable energy for all  
o Education research for development  
o Economic growth (e.g. equitable growth, financial sector development, private sector 
development)  
o Health (e.g. HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, neglected tropical diseases, child 
mortality, maternal health)  
o Water and sanitation  
o Food and nutrition (including food security)  
o Demographic change and migration  
o Rural and urban development  
o Infrastructure (including civil engineering, information and communication technologies, 
big data for social and economic development)  
o Humanitarian disasters and emergencies, disaster risk reduction  
o Resilient and connected communities  
o Governance, society and conflict (e.g. transparency, accountability, effective 
institutions, land and natural resource rights, poverty alleviation, social development, 
structural inequalities, violence and security, peace building, civil society)  
o Development-relevant data collection, quality and access (including administrative data 
and macroeconomic statistics).  
Please see Section 19 for a list of our review panels.  
4. Who can propose a workshop?  
Leading Researchers (see footnote 1 on previous page) may apply to be workshop coordinators 
and must propose a theme for the workshop using the online application form here. The proposal 
must be a joint application, with one coordinator based at a UK institution and one based in the 
partner country. Applications must have the support of the home institutions, confirmed by 
checking a tick box in the online application. In this round, only one application may be submitted 
per coordinator, but there is no limit to the number of applications submitted per institution.  
5. Location of the workshops  
It is expected that most workshops will take place in the partner country (i.e. outside of the UK) 
unless indicated otherwise in Annex 1. However, if there is a compelling reason for the workshop to 
 4  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
take place in the UK, then this should be detailed in the proposal and agreed with the British 
Council.  
6. Duration of the workshops  
The minimum duration of a workshop is 3 days and the maximum duration is 5 days.  
7. Timing of the workshops  
Workshops must take place between 1st February 2017 and 31st January 2018.  
8. Participation in the workshops    
 Workshop coordinators must identify up to 4 Leading/Established Researchers (see footnote on 
page 1 for a definition), two from each country, to act as mentors, but the remaining participants 
must be researchers at an earlier stage in their career. 
Workshop places must be allocated to early career researchers through an open call once the 
British Council has notified the applicants that their proposal has been successful. Criteria for the 
selection of early career researchers will be made available to workshop coordinators. However, 
we would expect early career researchers to have been awarded their PhD not more than 10 years 
prior to the workshop (or to have equivalent experience), with allowances made for career breaks. 
If a researcher does not hold a PhD but has research experience equivalent to a PhD holder and 
works in a field where a PhD is not a pre-requisite for established research activity, they can still be 
considered eligible. Participants from for-profit organisations cannot be funded.   
Role of the workshop coordinators: Coordinators submit the online application form along with a 
budget request, determine the workshop theme and shape the content/agenda of the workshop.   
Workshop coordinators – overseen by the relevant British Council country office and in-country 
partners, if appropriate – will also be responsible for selecting mentors and early career 
researchers to participate in the workshop if the proposal is successful.  
Under this call for proposals, workshop coordinators will be responsible for all organisational 
aspects of the workshop logistics (including travel arrangements for participants and booking of the 
workshop venue).  
In most cases, the grant agreement will be signed by the UK workshop coordinator’s home 
institution which will be responsible for the management of the grant (including financial reporting). 
However, in some countries this is subject to change and the final terms will be communicated to 
successful applicants.  
Under future calls, in some participating countries, the relevant British Council country office may 
organise the workshops on behalf of the coordinators, in which case all logistical arrangements will 
be managed and paid for directly by the relevant country office. Please see Annex 1 for information 
on which countries this applies to. However, responsibility for the preparation of the proposal 
(including the budget request), the workshop content and the selection of early career participants 
will still lie with the workshop coordinators.  
Role of the Mentors: Established Researchers can give a limited number of keynote lectures but 
must also act as mentors to the early career researchers during the workshop. Ideally, they would 
also remain in contact with the early career researchers after the workshop has finished.  
9. Language  
Workshops will be held in English. It is expected that all participants will have a sufficient standard 
of English to engage fully in discussion. However, consideration should be given to non-native 
speakers.  
10. Thematic focus of the workshops  
 5  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
Workshops may be specific to a particular field of research or interdisciplinary in nature. Any 
relevant field of research can be covered, except where partner countries have indicated specific 
priority areas (please see Annex 1 for country priority areas). 
11. Content of the workshop  
Workshop coordinators are expected to lead on developing the research content of the workshops. 
However, workshops are intended to be a career development opportunity with a focus on 
promoting international collaboration, and there are specific guidelines to facilitate this. The 
following is a brief overview, and more detailed guidance will be provided to successful applicants:  
Sessions should be as interactive as possible, and all participants encouraged to share knowledge, 
experience and ideas. Workshop coordinators and mentors should share their expertise. 
Suggested sessions:  
 
Formal keynote lectures by the workshop coordinators and mentors. These must take up no 
more than a half-day in total (ideally spread over the workshop).  
 
Research sessions where the early career researchers are able to share their current 
research. This could be in poster format or oral presentations.  
 
Networking sessions where researchers are able to interact and explore opportunities for 
collaboration (e.g. speed-networking sessions)  
 
Overview of the research base and funding opportunities: a brief introduction to the research 
base in the UK and partner country – how research is funded, size, strengths, international 
collaborative activity and links with industry.  
 
Career development opportunities in the UK and partner country. This could be an informal 
discussion amongst the researchers or a more structured look at career development.  
 
How to form international collaborations (intercultural skills, challenges, opportunities, best 
practice etc.).   
 
Optional content within workshops (where appropriate these sessions would be welcomed but 
applications will not be disadvantaged if they do not include them):  
- Depending on the research field or theme of the workshop, coordinators may wish to include 
a session which invites industry or other non-academic partners to talk about cross-sectoral 
collaboration.  
- Public engagement activity/Cultural activity/ Visit to a relevant research facility.  
 
12. Recruitment of participants  
Following the selection process, successful workshop coordinators will be responsible for recruiting 
participants to the workshops. Participants must be based in the UK or in the partner country. 
Early career researchers recruited to participate in the workshop must have a PhD or equivalent 
research experience. There must be an open call for participants which must be disseminated 
through various defined channels3 (so that workshops are advertised as widely as possible). No 
more than a third of early career researchers from each country may be recruited from within the 
institutions of the coordinators and mentors. 
The selection of early career researchers to participate in the workshop must be fair and 
transparent. The British Council will provide a template application form for participants which 
                                                
3 Examples of dissemination channels:  
• 
Euraxess: www.euraxess.org.uk   
• 
UK Research Staff Association: http://www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers/205761/UK-Research-
StaffAssociation.html  
• 
British Institute at Ankara website: http://www.biaa.ac.uk/home/   
• 
British Academy Africa Desk: http://www.africadesk.ac.uk/pages/home/   
 
 6  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
coordinators can adapt as appropriate, and British Council in-country teams will be available to 
offer advice and oversight where necessary.   
Equal opportunities and diversity are at the heart of the British Council’s cultural relations 
ambitions. coordinators are encouraged to work towards as equal a gender balance as is 
possible, promote diversity, and ensure that no applicants are excluded from participation on the 
basis of ethnicity, gender, religious belief, sexual orientation or disability. 
The maximum number of participants per workshop is 40 (including coordinators, mentors and 
ECRs).  
13. Funding  
The level of grant funding available from the Newton Fund depends on the country: please see 
Annex 1 for country-specific limits. 
A condition for accessing funds from the Newton Researcher Links programme is that match 
funding is secured from partners in each country. For the April 2016 call, the British Council has 
secured match funding from most national funding agencies or other partners in each participating 
country. Please see Annex 1 for more details for each country. 
The grant contribution given to support the organisation of the Researcher Links workshops is 
calculated using a combination of flat unit rates per person and accountable costs.  
The 6 budget categories: International travel, Domestic travel, Subsistence, Event costs per day, 
Additional costs and Admin costs. Please note that the unit costs given in Annex 4 constitute the 
maximum amounts that can be requested in each category and that all budget requests will be 
assessed for feasibility and appropriateness.   
Please see Annex 4 for maximum amounts that can be requested in each budget category. 
Applicants are required to provide a budget request upon submission of their proposal.  
International travel  
This is a contribution towards: travel costs to the country of the workshop for international 
participants, visa costs, travel insurance and local transport to the workshop venue. It is calculated 
using a unit cost for each workshop participant, at the travel rate stated for the country where the 
workshop takes place.4 International economy class airfares should be booked by the workshop 
coordinators as far in advance as possible to minimise costs. 
Workshop coordinators and workshop participants must take out adequate insurance. The British 
Council cannot take responsibility for any issues which occur when the participants are in-country.  
Domestic travel   
This covers costs of domestic travel to the venue for workshop participants based in the country 
where the workshop takes place.  The domestic travel contribution is calculated using a unit cost 
for each workshop participant and is specific to the country where the workshop takes place.  
Subsistence  
This covers the costs of accommodation, medical insurance and daily expenses such as phone 
and local transport. Subsistence is calculated using a unit cost for each workshop participant 
multiplied by the number of days of the workshop, and is specific to the country where the 
workshop takes place.  
Event costs  
                                                
4Costs of any additional travel during the workshop – for international and domestic participants – may be 
covered using the subsistence budget.  
 7  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
This covers the costs of venue hire and meals. The event rate grant contribution is calculated using 
a unit cost for each workshop participant multiplied by the number of days of the workshop, and is 
specific to the country where the workshop takes place.  
Contribution to additional event costs  
Workshop coordinators can request a sum of up to £200 to cover additional costs not already 
covered, e.g. projector, flip charts and other materials needed for the organisation of the 
workshops (including networking and social activities).  
Administrative costs  
Workshop coordinators can request a sum of up to £2,000 to cover administrative costs such as 
telephone bills, printing costs and stationery.  
Staff costs and honoraria cannot be covered by the Researcher Links grants. Only a   
contribution of up to £2,000 can be requested to cover administrative costs (please see Annex 4).  
14. Payment of the grant  
The Newton Fund grant for Researcher Links workshops will be paid in 2 instalments: a 90% pre-
financing payment will be paid within 30 days of signature of the Grant Agreement, and 10% post-
workshop payment or recovery of the balance on approval by the British Council of a final report. 
If the workshop has not been delivered as planned, or if fewer participants attended than originally 
envisaged, resulting in a reduction in costs, the final payment may be withheld and if necessary a 
proportion of the grant recovered. The Researcher Links Grant Agreement will be signed by and 
the grant paid to one of the workshop coordinators’ home institutions, usually the UK. The grant 
recipient institution that signs the agreement will then be responsible for the management of the 
grant (including financial reporting). The final terms will be communicated to successful applicants. 
Funding offered under the Researcher Links programme is intended as a contribution towards the 
costs of the workshops. Workshop coordinators are expected to add a contribution in-kind towards 
the overall cost of the workshop by dedicating their time to the planning and delivery of the 
workshops.  
15. Reporting  
Workshop coordinators must submit a final report within 30 days after the workshop. The final 
report template will be sent to successful applicants as part of the grant agreement and will include 
financial and narrative sections. Further details will be provided to successful applicants in the 
detailed workshop guidelines.  
Individual workshop participants will be asked to complete an online baseline survey, a baseline 
follow up survey 6 months after the workshop and a post workshop feedback questionnaire. 
Workshop coordinators will be asked to send the link to the baseline survey to their participants 
and also to administer the post-workshop questionnaire. 
16. Ethics and research governance 
It is essential that all legal and professional codes of practice are followed in conducting work 
supported under this Programme. Applicants must ensure the proposed activity will be carried out to 
the highest standards of ethics and research integrity. Specifically, applications that involve 
research on animals, human participants, human tissue or patient/participant data must be 
accompanied by necessary permission certificates from the relevant local ethical review 
committees/authorities in the UK and the partner country, or an undertaking to obtain this 
permission in advance of the activity commencing. Failure to do so will result in applications being 
rendered ineligible and any funding already committed through this Programme being rescinded. 
Please refer to the Research Councils UK ‘Policy and Guidelines on Governance of Good Research 
 8  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
Conduct’ (http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/Publications/researchers/grc/), the InterAcademy Partnership 
report ‘Doing Global Science: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in the Global Research Enterprise’ 
(http://www.interacademycouncil.net/24026/29429.aspx) 
or 
contact 
us 
at 
UK-
ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org for further guidance. 
 
17.  Diversity 
While recognising that some research fields are dominated by one particular gender, coordinators 
are encouraged to work towards as equal a gender balance as possible, promote diversity, and 
must ensure that no applicants are excluded from participation on the basis of ethnicity, gender, 
religious belief, sexual orientation or disability.  
Applicants may apply for funding to cover extra costs for such participation. Please make costs to 
cover the inclusion of under-represented groups clear in the ‘human resources’ section of the 
budget request in your application.  
Please contact us at UK-ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org for further information on funding and 
for more on the British Council’s approach, see our Equality Policy at 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/equality_policy_1.doc   
 
18. Application process  
Applicants must submit a completed online application form. Email submissions will not be 
accepted. The online form and a Word version can be found on the British Council Researcher 
Links webpage (http://www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities).    
The online form allows applicants to enter information and save it for a later date until final 
submission. There are strict character limits for each section which cannot be exceeded. Any 
problems with the online submission system should be reported to the following email address: UK-
ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org.  
Applicants must confirm on the online form that: 
 
applicants have obtained permission to submit the application on behalf of the UK and 
partner country institutions 
 
the UK or partner country coordinators’ institution  is willing  to receive the funds and to 
sign a grant agreement with the British Council.  
 
For institutions in Vietnam and Indonesia, the financial and/or in-kind contribution that will 
be provided.   
Once the online application is submitted, applicants will receive a confirmation email containing the 
application ID number. This acts as acknowledgement of receipt by the British Council system. 
This reference number must be used in all communications with the British Council. Applicants who 
have not received an automated email confirmation should contact the British Council at  
UK-ResearcherLinks@britishcouncil.org.  
 
19. Application assessment and notification of results  
Applications will be assessed against the eligibility and quality criteria (Annex 2 and 3). Applicants 
whose application is rejected at the eligibility stage will have 10 days to appeal against the 
decision.  
Successful applicants will be notified approximately 3 months after the call deadline. 
20. Selection Process  
 9  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
Selection begins with an eligibility check by the British Council against the eligibility criteria given 
in these Guidelines, including Annex 1 and the Eligibility Checklist at Annex 2.  
Eligible proposals then undergo independent external quality review on the basis of quality, fit to 
development needs and country priorities and the overarching Researcher Links workshops 
objectives. 
Eligible workshop proposals will be assessed in the UK by one of five Review Panels:  
• 
Arts and Humanities  
• 
Biological and Medical Sciences  
• 
Engineering, Physical and Space Sciences  
• 
Environment, Agriculture and Food Sciences  
• 
Social Sciences  
Workshop coordinators must indicate in their online application form which Review Panel their 
proposal should be assessed by, and the subject(s) their research covers. Up to 3 subject areas 
can be selected in priority order, but the applicant must indicate only one Selection Panel.   
In the UK Workshop proposals will be assessed by two reviewers against the quality criteria in 
Annex 3. Each review results in a total score between 0 and 60. The final score will be decided by 
the full Review Panel.  Applications scoring less than 30 points will be considered not fundable. 
However, please note that achieving an average score of 30 or above does not imply that the 
proposal will be funded.  
The final selection decision will be made in-country in collaboration with national stakeholders and 
partner funding organisations. National and partner research priorities will be considered in the final 
decision in addition to the general assessment criteria under this programme. Please see Annex 1 
for priority areas by country.  
As detailed in section 9 of this guideline, only those proposals will be considered for funding that 
have clearly articulated relevance to the economic development and social welfare of low- and 
middle-income countries, benefitting poor and vulnerable populations in these countries.  
21. Call deadline  
The submission deadline is 16:00 UK time on 27 June 2016. Proposals submitted after the 
deadline will not be considered for funding.  
22. Data protection  
As part of the online application form, the British Council will ask applicants’ permission to:  
• 
Use the information provided in the application for processing the application, making any 
consequential award, for the award payment, monitoring, maintenance and review of the 
award. In some cases information will be shared with national programme partners for the 
purpose of selection and monitoring of the award.  
• 
Make information on the successful applications available to the public on their website and 
other publicity, and in reports and documents.  
• 
Contact applicants in the future to inform them about future British Council opportunities.  
Under UK Data Protection laws applicants have the right to ask for a copy of the information we 
hold on them, for which we may charge a fee, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies 
in that information. More information on this is available on the British Council data protection 
webpage (http://www.britishcouncil.org/home-data-protection.htm). Alternatively, it can be 
requested from the local British Council office or the Data Protection Team at 
dataprotection@britishcouncil.org. 
23. Applicant screening 
 10  
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops Applicant Guidance  April  2016 v.1 
In order to comply with UK government legislation, the British Council may at any point during the 
application process, carry out searches of relevant third party screening databases to ensure that 
neither the applicant nor any of the applicant’s employees, partners, directors, shareholders   is 
listed: 
 
as an individual or entity with whom national or supranational bodies have decreed 
organisations should not have financial dealings; 
 
as being wanted by Interpol or any national law enforcement body in connection with crime; 
 
as being subject to regulatory action by a national or international enforcement body; 
 
as being subject to export, trade or procurement controls or (in the case of an individual) as 
being disqualified from being a company director; and/or 
 
as being a heightened risk individual or organisation, or (in the case of an individual) a 
politically exposed person. 
 
If the applicant or any other party is listed in a Screening Database for any of the reasons 
set out above, the British Council will assess the applicant as ineligible to apply for this grant 
call.  
The applicant must provide the British Council with all information reasonably requested by the 
British Council to complete the screening searches. 
Please read the text to this effect on the application form and tick the box to show that you 
understand this. 
  
Annex 1 – Country-specific guidance and grant rates 
 
Please note that the unit costs given below constitute the maximum mounts that can be requested in each category and that all budget requests will 
be assessed for feasibility and appropriateness. While the maximum contribution cannot be exceeded, applicants can request less in which case the 
amount requested cannot be increased at a later stage. 
 
1. Brazil  
National Co-funders: CONFAP and FAPESP 
Research priorities: 
 
All areas in the global call (see page 3) 
 
Zika virus 
 
Additional eligibility criteria:   
Please refer to the information here  www.britishcouncil.org.br/newton-fund/chamadas/researcher-links-confap-fapesp-2016-2017 for specific 
requirements for the different Brazilian states.  
The British Council will pay 50% of the grant to the UK institution and CONFAP or FAPESP will pay 50% of the grant to the Brazilian institution. The 
link above gives further details of the Brazilian requirements.  
Grant rates 
International travel: £1000 
Domestic travel: £110 
Subsistence costs per person per day: £250 
Event costs per person per day £190 
Additional administrative costs: £ 200 
Additional events costs: £ 2000 
2. Egypt 
Co-funder: Science and Technology Development Fund 
 Research priorities: 
Proposals must be relevant to at least one of the five core Newton-Mosharafa themes: 
 
Sustainable water management 
  
 
Food production and sustainable agriculture 
 
Renewable energy 
 
Affordable and inclusive healthcare 
 
Cultural heritage and archaeology 
 Additional eligibility criteria:   
 
Applicants from Egypt must hold a PhD  
 
Only applicants that are affiliated with institutes of an Egyptian identity are eligible to apply 
 
For Egypt, applications need to be submitted as documents (word/PDF) on the STDF website. 
 
http://www.stdf.org.eg/index.php/submit-your-proposal  
 
For enquiries relating to the Egypt side of the grant or to STDF procedures, please contact STDF directly (Nevine.nabil@stdf.org.eg ) 
Workshops can only take place in the UK if any security reasons arise. 
Successful applicants contracted by STDF will follow STDF's payment schedule. To work out the total amount of the grant, applicants should 
use the exchange rate published by the Central Bank of Egypt for the week beginning 17th April 
Grant rates 
International travel: £800 
Domestic travel: £100 
Subsistence costs per person per day: £70 
Event costs per person per day £25 
Additional administrative costs: £ 200 
Additional events costs: £ 2000 
3. India  
Co-funder: The Royal Society of Chemistry  
Research priorities: 
 
Chemical sciences 
  Within the chemical sciences proposals related to the following challenge areas are particularly welcome: 
 
Human Health – eg. Antimicrobial resistance, neglected diseases, medical chemistry, bio-materials 
 
Energy – e.g. sustainable fuels, chemicals and energy storage. 
 
Environment and Sustainability – e.g. new materials, nanomaterials, water quality, climate, agriculture, air. 
 
Research with relevance to the above areas at the Chemistry-Biology interface, the Chemistry-Materials interface and the Chemistry-
Environmental Science interface. 
  
Additional eligibility criteria: none 
Grant rates: 
International travel: £800 
Domestic travel: £95 
Subsistence costs per person per day: £32 
Event costs per person per day £30 
Additional administrative costs: £ 200 
4. Turkey 
National co-funder: The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK) 
Research priorities: 
 
Agriculture 
 
Climate and environment 
 
Sustainable energy for all 
 
Education research and innovation for development 
 
Economic growth 
 
Health 
 
Water and sanitation 
 
Food and nutrition 
 
Demographic change and migration 
 
Rural and urban development 
 
Infrastructure 
 
Humanitarian disasters and emergencies, disaster risk reduction 
 
Resilient and connected communities 
 
Governance, society and conflict 
 
Development-relevant data collection, quality and access 
 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
All Turkish researchers who apply must be registered to TÜBİTAK ARBİS (Researcher Information system) through the following link: 
http://arbis.tubitak.gov.tr  
If requested, all researchers should receive Official Legal/ Private Permission Documents or Ethical Issues Documents 
For detailed information, please follow links below: 
  
http://www.tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/yasal_izin_bilgi_notu_07_08_15.pdf   
http://tubitak.gov.tr/sites/default/files/etik_onay_bilgi_notu_23_07_13.pdf  
 Proposals without the required Official Legal/ Private Permission Documents or Ethical Issues Documents will not be funded. 
Grant rates 
International travel: £600 
Domestic travel: £150 
Subsistence costs per person per day: £100 
Event costs per person per day £30  
Additional administrative costs: £ 200 
Additional events costs: £ 2000 
 
Calculating your budget request  
 
To calculate the budget contribution that can be requested in each category, applicants should use the unit costs for each country where the 
workshop takes place, as indicated in Annex 1.  
International travel unit rates and visa costs should be multiplied by the number of international participants.  
Domestic travel unit rates should be multiplied by the number of domestic participants. 
Subsistence should be multiplied by the combined number of International and domestic participants and by the number of days the workshop lasts.  
Additional costs must be a maximum of £200 
Administrative costs must be a maximum of £2000 
   
The budget for a workshop lasting 4 days and taking place in Egypt attended by 20 UK-based researchers and 20 researchers based in Egypt 
would be calculated as follows:  
20 X £800 (international travel) = £16000 
20 X £100 (domestic travel) = £2000 
40 X £70 (subsistence costs) = £2800 X4 days (duration of the workshop) = £11200 
40 X £25 (event rate) = £1000 X4 days (duration of the workshop) = £4000 
£200 (additional costs) 
£2000 (administrative costs) 
= £35,400 total maximum contribution that can be requested. 
 
 15  
  
Annex 2 – Eligibility criteria checklist 
  
The application has been submitted by the applicant by the published deadline  
  
The applicants have uploaded letters of support from each of the coordinators’ home 
institutions.   
  
The application form is completed in full and complies with instructions given  
  
The application form has been completed in English  
  
Only one application per coordinator has been submitted in this round (please note that there 
is no limit on the number of applications submitted per institution)  
  
The workshop will take place between 1st  February 2017and 31st January 2018 
  
The institutions where the workshop coordinators are based are recognised publicly funded 
research establishments or Higher Education Institutions (can include private universities)  
  
Applicants must have the capacity to administer a grant and satisfy British Council 
requirements to prevent bribery, fraud and professional misconduct. Applicants will confirm 
that they comply with British Council requirements by responding to pre-submission questions 
in the online application form.  
  
For proposals involving the Vietnam and Indonesia, the applicants have provided confirmation 
that the lead partner country institution is able to provide matched financial and/or in-kind 
funding for the workshop   
  
  
Annex 3 - Scoring system   
Assessment of the quality and development relevance of the proposals will be performed by panel  
members in the UK, and the final funding decisions will be made in discussion with British Council  
 16  
  
country office and in-country partners, if applicable. Proposals with an average score of less than 30 
points are considered not fundable. Equally, only proposals that have clearly articulated relevance to 
economic development and social welfare of the partner country will be considered for funding. 
Section 1 – Relevance to economic development and 
social welfare 
 
Yes/No 
The proposal clearly articulates a plausible pathway along 
which the research may contribute to the  economic 
development and social welfare of the partner country and 
lead to positive impact on the lives of people on a low 
income within a reasonable timeframe (10 to 15 years) 
Please see guidance for applicants for further details 
 
 
 
 
Score 
Range 
 
Section 2 – Research quality and relevance 
 
 
  0-20 
The academic importance and timeliness of the research 
topic is clearly demonstrated. 
The workshop coordinators have sufficient relevant 
experience to lead the proposed workshops and achieve 
the stated objectives. 
The collaborating institutions are of appropriate academic 
standing 
  
 
 
 
 20 points: Meets all criteria to 
an exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a very 
high level 
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a high 
level 
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level 
1 to 5 points: Meets some of 
the criteria to an adequate level 
- 
0 points: Fails to meet any of 
the criteria to an adequate level. 
 
 
 
    
  
  
Section 3 – Workshop Proposal 
 
 
  0-20 
 17  
  
The description of the workshop includes clear, feasible 
and realistic objectives and outputs. 
There is clear evidence that the proposed workshop 
supports new links or significantly extends and develops 
existing links. 
The benefits and relevance of the collaboration to the UK 
and partner country institution, and to the research itself, 
are clearly described. 
There is strong evidence of support from both the home 
and host institutions. 
The workshop is justified as a stand-alone activity, or as 
part of a larger programme. 
The agenda of the workshop is will structured with 
interactive sessions. 
20 points: Meets all criteria to 
an exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a very 
high level 
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a high 
level 
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level 
1 to 5 points: Meets some of 
the criteria to an adequate level 
0 points: Fails to meet any of 
the criteria to an adequate level. 
Section 4 – Sustainability and Capacity Building 
 
 
0-20 
The potential in terms of professional development and 
capacity building for early career researchers taking part in 
the workshop, and for other potential beneficiaries,   is 
clearly described. 
The proposal includes a clear and feasible 
description of how the workshop coordinators’ 
institutions intend to sustain their collaboration 
over the longer term. 
20 points: Meets all criteria to 
an exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a very 
high level 
11 to 15 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to a high 
level 
6 to 10 points: Meets the 
majority of the criteria to an 
adequate level 
1 to 5 points: Meets some of 
the criteria to an adequate level 
- 
0 points: Fails to meet any of 
the criteria to an adequate level. 
 
 
                                                                                                              
  
 
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops
Proposta 
Estado 
PI UK
 
Plato's Communities: 
Citizenship and Diversity 
 
DF 
Gábor Betegh
 
Inequality or State 
Capacity? Making the 
Brazilian economy work for 
everyone 
 
DF 
Octavio Luiz Motta 
Ferraz
 
 
International research 
collaboration for managing 
anxious children who need 
dental treatment 
 
GO 
Marie Therese 
Hosey
Re-naturing cities: 
theories, strategies and 
methodologies 
GO 
Fabiano Lemes de 
Oliveira
                                                                                                            
Newton Fund Researcher Links Workshops 2016 Results 
CONFAP – British Council 
 
PI UK 
UK Institution 
PI BR 
Gábor Betegh 
University of 
Cambridge 
Gabriele Cornelli 
Octavio Luiz Motta 
Ferraz 
King's College 
London 
Marcelo Medeiros 
Marie Therese 
Hosey 
King's College 
London 
 
Luciane Ribeiro 
de Rezende 
Sucasas da Costa 
Fabiano Lemes de 
Oliveira 
University of 
Portsmouth 
Pedro Dultra 
Britto 
                                
 
BR Institution 
  
University of Brasilia 
University of Brasilia and 
IPEA 
Universidade Federal de 
Goias 
Universidade Federal de 
Goiás 
  
 
How the Railways 
contribute to improving 
quality of life? 
SC 
Marin Marinov 
Newcastle University 
Acires Dias 
Universidade Federal de 
Santa Catarina 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A pathway to global 
sustainability - Role of local 
food supply logistics in 
global sustainability 
SC 
Usha Ramanathan 
Nottingham Trent 
University 
Lilian Adriana 
Borges 
UNIDAVI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Indicators and Metrics for 
Socially Inclusive Waste 
Management and 
Resource Efficiency in 
Supply Chains: Measuring 
and Reporting to 
Embed Sustainability in 
Policy and Practice 
 
    SC 
Diego Vazquez-Brust Royal Holloway 
University of London 
Lucila Maria de 
Souza Campos 
Federal University of Santa 
Catarina 
 
Smart Technology for 
fighting Zika-Virus 
Epidemics (Remotely and 
highly distributed sensed 
data, Analytics and Visual 
sensing of micro-macro 
environment health 
welfare) 
 
PE/SE 
Ebad Banissi 
London South Bank 
University 
Fernando 
Buarque de Lima 
Neto 
University of Pernambuco 
  
 
Linking Welfare Reform 
with the Sustainable 
Development Goals: Case 
Studies from the United 
Kingdom and Brazil 
 
 
MG 
 
Mohsen al Attar 
 
Queen's University 
Belfast 
 
Jose Luis 
Quadros de 
Magalhaes 
Pontifícia Universidade 
Católica de Minas Gerais 
  
 
