
                                                    
 
1 
 
 
ERC – CONFAP – CNPq 2020 Call 
Research opportunities in Europe for active PhD researchers from Brazil 
 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP and the National Council for 
Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq) invite researchers from Brazil to pursue research 
collaborations with Principal Investigators already supported through EU-funded European 
Research Council (ERC) grants. 
 
2. BACKGROUND: 
The present call for Expression of Interest is launched in the framework of: 
 The Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian 
National Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) to provide research opportunities in 
Europe for Brazilian researchers, signed on the 13th of October 2016, and 
 The Administrative Arrangement between the Directorate-General for Research and 
Innovation of the European Commission (DG RTD), on the one side, and the Brazilian 
National  Council for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq), the Brazilian Funding 
Agency for Studies (FINEP) and Projects and the Brazilian National Council of  State Funding 
Agencies (CONFAP), on the other side, on the mechanisms to support EU-Brazil cooperation 
in research and innovation activities, signed on the 22nd of May 2018. 
 
3. ELIGIBLE RESEARCHERS: 
Eligible researchers from Brazil are: 
 Active researchers from Brazil, holding a PhD, who are implementing research activities 
within Brazilian universities, institutes or research centers. 
 Additional eligibility criteria may be requested by the supporting Funding Agencies, which 
shall, in such cases, publish specific guidelines.  
 
4. MODALITIES: 
The ERC Executive Agency (ERCEA) has provided a list of ERC-funded principal investigators 
interested in hosting Brazilian Researchers in their research teams, for short or longer periods (up 
to 12 months). 
ERC-funded projects, which are open to hosting Brazilian researchers, cover a wide range of 
scientific fields and have been selected by the European Commission and the ERC, within the 
following evaluation panels: 
 
                                                                      
                                                    
 
2 
 
a. Molecular and Structural Biology and Biochemistry  
b. Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics and Systems Biology  
c. Cellular and Developmental Biology  
d. Physiology, Pathophysiology and Endocrinology  
e. Neurosciences and Neural Disorders  
f. Immunity and Infection  
g. Diagnostic Tools, Therapies and Public Health 
h. Evolutionary, Population and Environmental Biology 
i. Applied life Sciences and Non-Medical Biotechnology 
j. Mathematics  
k. Fundamental Constituents of Matter 
l. Condensed Matter Physics 
m. Physical and Analytical Chemical Sciences 
n. Synthetic Chemistry and Materials  
o. Computer Science and Informatics 
p. Systems and Communication Engineering  
q. Products and Processes Engineering 
r. Universe Sciences  
s. Earth System Science  
t. Markets, Individuals and Institutions 
u. Institutions, Values, Beliefs and Behaviour  
v. Environment, Space and Population  
w. The Human Mind and Its Complexity  
x. Cultures and Cultural Production  
y. The Study of the Human Past  
z. Synergy 
 
The access to the list of ERC funded projects open to cooperate with researchers from Brazil, may 
also facilitate remote-based cooperation, until the definition of travel and visits may be approved 
and feasible. 
 
4.1 Modalities of implementation: 
 
Expression of Interest of Researchers from Brazil 
 
I. 
Eligible researchers shall need to access the online portal, available at the link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login and fill in the items listed below.  
a. Name and Surname; 
b. CPF; 
c. Institution: university, institute or research centre where the main research activities 
are carried out; 
                                                                      
                                                    
 
3 
 
d. Brazilian State where the main research activities are carried out; 
e. Select academic degree among the options provided; 
f. Contacts (email and phone). 
II. 
Following such request, eligible researchers will be authorized to access, within the same 
portal, to information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian 
researchers, including the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and contacts.  
a. The list of ERC-funded projects is confidential and cannot be reproduced or 
distributed. 
b. Researchers who do not attend eligibility criteria will not be authorized to access to 
the list. 
III. 
Proposals may be sent in partnership with ERC-grantees not listed in the portal, 
accompanied by evidence that the ERC proposal is still valid for 18 months from the start of 
the Brazil-ERC collaborative activities. 
IV. 
Researchers from Brazil have to contact the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant of 
the project that is of interest and must reach with him/her an agreement on the possibility 
of joining his/her research team, as well as jointly define a Work Plan and related conditions. 
V. 
Researchers from Brazil have to submit their proposal, in the dedicated portal, following 
agreements taken with the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant and according to the 
orientations in Item no. 6. 
VI. 
Assessment of the proposals will be done by the participating FAPs, with the coordination of 
CONFAP and by CNPq. 
VII. 
Results are then communicated to the ERC and to the Principal Investigator holding the ERC 
grant, and are subsequently published. 
 
5. FUNDING: 
Eligible researchers from Brazil will continue to receive their salaries and/or scholarships according 
to their institutional terms and conditions. 
The Brazilian State Funding Agencies participating in the present call or CNPq will provide support 
for travel expenses.  
Visiting researchers from Brazil which shall be incorporated into the research teams of the ERC-
funded Principal Investigators (at the Host Institution of the ERC project), for the duration of the 
visit, may receive support from the ERC grant, and such funding shall be negotiated and defined by 
the ERC funded Principal Investigators and the researchers from Brazil. 
The ERC-funded Principal Investigators are expected to establish and decide in advance, with the 
visiting researcher from Brazil, the research conditions, which should offer an enabling environment 
for the research visits and be in line with the applicable national law and any other rules and 
regulations applicable on the Host institution. 
The costs, which can be reimbursed under the ERC grant, must be eligible within the terms of the 
grant and the maximum amount of the ERC grant cannot be increased for this purpose. 
Eligible cost categories include: 
                                                                      
                                                    
 
4 
 
a) subsistence costs on a per diem basis, or any other applicable modality of the Host 
Institution, in accordance with the applicable national law and any other rules or regulations 
applicable on the Host Institution, commensurate to the level of experience of the individual 
visiting researcher; 
b) any other eligible costs incurred during the visit of the researchers from Brazil that are 
directly related to the ERC-funded project. 
 
Scientific exchanges may start in the second semester 2021 and can be either performed on a more 
extended timeframe (i.e. lasting 6 to 12 months) or be divided in multiple and shorter visits, i.e. to 
perform joint experimentation or similar research activities.  
The timing of such exchanges may be affected by the evolution of the current Covid-19 pandemic. 
 
6. ORIENTATIONS FOR SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS  
 
After having contacted the ERC Grantees, following orientations detailed in item 4.1, proposals must 
include all the documents listed below: 
 
1. Curriculum Vitae of the researcher from Brazil (proponent); 
2. Curriculum Vitae of the ERC-funded Principal Investigator;  
3. Work Plan, facilities and resources that the ERC-funded Principal Investigator and Host 
Institution shall provide to the visiting researcher from Brazil; 
4. Letter of Acceptance from the University or Research center of Origin of the researcher from 
Brazil; 
5. Letter of Acceptance from the ERC-funded Principal Investigator, indicating his consent on 
integrating the researcher from Brazil in his team and on his proposal and Work Plan; 
6. Letter of Acceptance from the Host Institution in Europe, which confirms the availability to 
receive the researcher from Brazil in the terms and timing foreseen in the Work Plan. 
 
Researchers from Brazil should, in first instance, contact their respective FAP or CNPq in order 
to verify if specific additional orientations are provided.  
 
Researchers 
from 
Brazil 
must 
submit 
their 
proposals 
within 
the 
Call’s 
link: 
http://www.confap.org.br/news/ercform/public/login.  
 
Researchers from the States of Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and Goiás must send proposals 
within the Call’s link mentioned above and also directly to: 
 
 FAPEMIG: http://everest.fapemig.br/ following the specific guidelines for FAPEMIG.  
 FAPEG: www.fapeg.go.gov.br/oppfapeg following the specific guidelines for FAPEG. 
                                                                      
                                                    
 
5 
 
 FAPERJ: to be published in the specific guidelines which shall be issued by FAPERJ. 
Other FAPs could request that proposals must be submitted also directly within the FAPs portals 
and in such case, indication will be given in the respective guidelines on the call. 
7. ASSESSMENT: 
Assessment criteria are based on the unique criteria of Scientific Excellence, in coherence and in 
order to be aligned with ERC grants. 
Scientific Excellence shall consider the academic background, quality, publications, technological 
development, participation in public, private, national or international funded projects. 
Scientific excellence shall also consider the Work Plan, which is presented as well as the impact and 
importance of the collaboration for the Brazilian context. 
Originality, innovation and feasibility shall also be assessed in this framework. 
 
8. DEADLINES: 
I. 
Expression of Interest: the interested researchers from Brazil should express their interest 
in having access information about the ERC-funded projects within the deadline: 1st of 
February 2021. 
II. 
Full proposal: complete proposals, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 6, must 
be submitted within the deadline: 1st of March 2021. 
Results shall be published on: 
 
CONFAP’s webpage: http://www.confap.org.br/ 
CNPq’s webpage: http://www.cnpq.br/ 
 
9. SUPPORTING BRAZILIAN FUNDING AGENCIES: 
According to the funding modalities detailed in Item no. 5, the present call is supported by CNPq 
and by the following Brazilian State Funding Agencies:  
1. Federal District - FAPDF  
2. Alagoas - FAPEAL 
3. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
4. Goiás - FAPEG 
5. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
6. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
7. Piauí - FAPEPI 
8. Rio Grande do Sul – FAPERGS 
                                                                      
                                                    
 
6 
 
9. Rio de Janeiro - FAPERJ 
10. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
11. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
12. Pará - FAPESPA 
13. Paraíba – FAPESQ 
14. Tocantins – FAPT 
15. Ceará - FUNCAP  
16. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: 
Contact for assistance and support: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
 
 More information on ‘ERC teams open to the world':  
https://erc.europa.eu/managing-your-project/set-and-develop-your-team 
 
 
 
