
 
 
  
  
  
A
ALLM
MA
A--CCO
ON
NIICCYYTT  FFU
UN
ND
D  
For the Development of Chilean Astronomy 
2011 CONTEST GROUND RULES 
 
 
1. BACKGROUND 
 
This contest is being implemented within the general framework of the “Scientific 
Cooperation Agreement for the Promotion of Astronomy Research,” dated 28 October 2003, 
and its subsequent amendments, signed between the National Scientific and Technological 
Research Commission (CONICYT) and the European Southern Observatory, Associated 
Universities Inc. (AUI) and the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan (NAOJ), the 
executive institutions building and operating the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA). 
The aforementioned agreement establishes the creation of a Fund for the Development of 
Chilean Astronomy, the ALMA-CONICYT Fund, which will be administered by CONICYT in 
consultation with a Mixed Committee whose members will represent Chile and ALMA in equal 
parts.  
 
2.  CONTEST OBJECTIVES 
 
The competition is oriented toward supporting of the development of Chilean astronomy as, 
for example, through the hiring of new astronomers, post-doctoral fellows and technicians, 
through strengthening of graduate studies and theoretical or technological initiatives, 
without exclusion of others, for which it is difficult to find alternative sources of funds. For 
this competition the Committee is interested in receiving applications that would include 
multi-institutional collaborations for the required infrastructural development, millimeter and 
sub/mm instrumentation, human resources, and experience in supporting the community in 
the preparation of proposals as well as data analysis and interpretation of results obtained 
with ALMA.  
 
3.  APPLICANTS 
 
The following institutions and/or people can present proposals and receive financial 
resources for this process:  
 
a. National Institutions (universities, research centers, scientific associations, etc) 
with a nonprofit legal status, public or private, which undertake or are committed to 
undertaking work in the research or teaching of astronomy, astrophysics and/or 
astronomical instrumentation, together with a responsible project researcher, 
on the project who must have a relationship with the institution.  
 
b. Responsible 
Researcher 
with 
institutional 
sponsorship: 
researchers 
or 
academics from national universities who have the formal support of the institution 
they belong to. 
 
c. Multi-institutions: two or more national institutions and a coordinator associated 
with an institution. In this case, it must be indicated which institution is the main 
one.  
 
Only institutions can apply if the proposal submitted considers the hiring of permanent staff.  
  
 
2 
4.  FINANCING 
 
The maximum financing limit for multi-institution projects is $180,000,000 (one hundred 
eighty million pesos) for two years of execution.  
The maximum financing limit for Institutional projects or those under a Responsible 
researcher with Institutional Sponsorship is $90.000,000 (ninety million pesos) for two 
years of execution.  
Each institution can submit more than one project to the contest.  
 
 
5. DURATION OF THE PROJECTS 
 
The proposals must be developed within a period of no less than one year and no more than 
two. This deadline begins from the date that the entire administrative process approving the 
respective subsidy agreement has been completed.  
 
If the project so requires and the application requests the hiring of an academic and/or 
postdoctoral fellow, the responsible institution or researcher, as appropriate, must send 
CONICYT a copy of the agreement signed between the parties. In these cases a maximum of 
one year will be given to materialize the hiring and the validity of the agreement and the 
respective guarantee of faithful fulfillment, where appropriate, will be a total of three years.  
 
 
6.  APPLICATION DOCUMENTS 
 
Institutional Proposals: 
 
Application Form. The applicant must complete the application form available on 
the CONICYT website, www.conicyt.cl/astronomia, in the section “Concursos de 
Astronomía,” “Concursos en período de postulación.”   
 
Electronic Form. An online form with general background information must also be 
completed upon submission of the application form.  
 
Letter of commitment from the applicant institution. For the hiring of permanent 
staff, the letter must be from its President or Dean and it must ensure the continuity of 
the position.  
 
Résumés of the main researcher and the executing team, including publications only 
from the last 5 years. 
 
Projects that require equipment must include a description of it and the materials 
required, including quotations and documentation to back them. 
 
Proposals from responsible researcher with institutional sponsorship: 
 
Application Form. The applicant must complete the application form available on 
the CONICYT website, www.conicyt.cl/astronomia, in the section “Concursos de 
Astronomía,” “Concursos en período de postulación.”   
 
Electronic Form. An online form with general background information must also be 
completed upon submission of the application form.  
 
Résumés of the main researcher and the executing team (where appropriate), 
including publications only from the last 5 years. 
- 
Letters of support and certification. In the case of an internship or a research 
residency in Chile or a foreign country, a letter of support from the academic or 
research institution where the internship or residency will be done and a letter from 
the institution that the researcher belongs to, certifying his or her sabbatical period.  
 
 
 
  
 
3 
Multi-institution Proposals: 
 
Application Form. The applicant must complete the application form available on 
the CONICYT website, www.conicyt.cl/astronomia, in the section “Concursos de 
Astronomía,” “Concursos en período de postulación.”  The form must contain a 
project administration and outreach plan, in addition to the expected impact. 
 
Electronic Form. An online form with general background information must also be 
completed upon submission of the application form.  
 
Letter of commitment of the applicant institution. For the hiring of permanent staff, 
the letter must be from its President or Dean and it must ensure the continuity of the 
position.  
 
Résumés of the coordinator and the executing team, including publications only 
from the last 5 years. 
 
Identification of the participating institutions and their respective letters of 
commitment.  
 
Projects that require equipment must include a description of it and the materials 
required, including quotations and documentation to back them. 
 
Proposals must be presented in English.  
 
Both the form as well as the annexes must preferably be attached in PDF format.  
 
 
7.  APPLICATION DEADLINES 
 
The deadline for submitting applications online closes automatically on Friday 2 September 
2011 at 12:00.  
 
8.  EVALUATION, SHORTLISTING, AND CONTEST RULING 
 
8.1. Applications that do not comply with these contest ground rules, including the 
submission of all documents that must be attached (attached documents), will 
automatically be considered in violation of the rules and will not be resubmitted to the 
evaluation process.  
 
8.2. Technical evaluation: external evaluators appointed by the ALMA-CONICYT Mixed 
Committee will assess the merit and relevance of the projects and the suitability of 
those proposing them.  
 
8.3. The ALMA-CONICYT Mixed Committee will be the professional body in charge of 
reviewing the proposals’ evaluations, modifying - if so determined - the budget 
allocations requested and the duration of the projects, in addition to proposing a ruling 
to CONICYT. The Mixed Committee was appointed via Exempt Resolution No. 1686, 
dated 05 May 2010, notwithstanding the changes that might be made.  
 
8.4. The main factors to be considered in the evaluation, both external as well as in the 
Committee, are:  
 
For Institutional proposals and those from Responsible Researchers 
Criteria 
Weighting 
1. Quality and relevance of the proposal.  
50% 
2. Consistency between objectives and the amounts required in the 
proposal.  
10% 
3. Academic quality  
a) Of the main applicant institution, if the proposal consists in 
20% 
  
 
4 
support for postgraduate students; 
b) Of the project’s main researcher and that of the executing team 
if the proposal is presented as that of a Responsible researcher 
with institutional sponsorship 
4. Results and impact of the proposal 
20% 
 
 
For Multi-institution proposals 
Criteria 
Weighting 
1. Quality and relevance of the proposal. 
40% 
2. Consistency between objectives and the amounts required in the 
proposal. 
15% 
3. Academic quality of the participating team  
10% 
4. Expected impact and outreach 
20% 
5. Administrative capacity defined in the project 
15% 
 
 
8.5. 
The final passing grade of the project will be an average of the grades awarded both 
by external evaluators, which corresponds to 30% of the final grade, as well as by 
the GEMINI-CONICYT Fund Council, which accounts for the remaining 70%.  
 
8.6. 
Decision Resolution: Following the corresponding administrative procedure, the 
CONICYT will approve the decision and adjudicate the contest based on the proposal 
made by the ALMA-CONICYT Fund Mixed Committee.  
 
8.7. 
The ruling can consider a waiting list, should the ALMA-CONICYT Fund Mixed 
Committee deem it appropriate. Said waiting list can enter into effect in the event 
that one of those chosen renounces its option or cannot make use of it. This will 
strictly follow the order in terms of scores and according to the number of vacancies 
that have been produced. This waiting list can also enter into effect depending on the 
CONICYT’s budget availability.  
 
In the event that a waiting list is created, the ALMA-CONICYT Fund Committee will 
have to determine the minimum score to be placed on it. 
  
 
9.  CONTEST RESULTS  
 
The results will be published on the CONICYT website once a decision has been made in the 
contest, which will include the waiting list in the event that there is one. In addition, all 
applicants will be informed via certified letter. Should the waiting list enter into effect, then 
the beneficiary or beneficiaries will be notified via certified letter.  
 
10. OBLIGATIONS OF THE ADJUDICATED PARTY 
  
 
10.1.  Submission of documentation 
 
The Institution, Responsible Researcher or Private Individual behind the adjudicated 
project, as appropriate, will have a deadline of 28 consecutive days (4 weeks) from 
the date on the notification letter to submit all of the documentation requested by the 
CONICYT and which is necessary to sign the sign the agreements between the 
CONICYT and the beneficiaries of the proposals. The adjudication will be void if 
the documentation is not received within the aforementioned period.  
  
 
5 
 
10.2.  Guarantees 
10.2.1. The sponsoring institutions that are not a part of the state administration 
must upon signing the agreement with the CONICYT guarantee the faithful 
use of resources and their administration, as stipulated by the clauses 
contained therein, by submitting a bank guarantee letter, an endorsable 
promissory note or an insurance policy with immediate execution. To finance 
it the ALMA-CONICYT Fund will provide an additional 3% calculated on the 
basis of the total approved budget. The aforementioned guarantee must be 
provided every year and have a minimum validity of 15 months from the 
date that the agreement was signed on and will be renewed every year. 
 
10.2.2. With regard to multi-institution applications, only the institution that the 
project coordinator belongs to will have to provide the guarantee, as long as 
it is not part of the state administration.  
 
10.2.3. In the case of projects that require hiring people, two guarantees must be 
presented in the first year. The first guarantee, to cover the costs associated 
with contracting for the project, will be provided for the total amount of the 
respective transfer upon signing the agreement with the CONICYT. This 
guarantee must have a minimum validity of 16 months from the date that 
the agreement is signed. A second guarantee must be provided together with 
the agreement to hire the academic or postdoctoral fellow that is equivalent 
to the amount of the transfer that CONICYT made for this concept and it 
must have a minimum validity of 15 months from the date on which the 
academic or postdoctoral fellow was hired.  
 
10.2.4. In the case of Responsible researchers with institutional sponsorship the 
adjudicated researcher must upon signing the agreement provide an IOU 
with Special Mandate in CONICYT’s name to guarantee the proper fulfillment 
of the obligations established in the respective project financing agreement, 
which must be renewed every year. 
 
 
10.3. Contracting  
For projects that consider hiring permanent postdoctoral fellows or professors, the 
adjudicated Institution must publish a call to participate in the contest1  in a national 
or international media outlet and inform the CONICYT Astronomy Program of the 
matter within three months after the signing of the agreement.  
 
10.4. Submission of reports  
 
The Responsible Researcher must provide the CONICYT Astronomy Program with 
technical-scientific and financial reports for every year of execution in the project, 
starting from the date of the resolution approving the subsidy agreement.  
 
The technical-scientific report will describe the project’s progress or results 
(including a description of the activities engaged in and, in particular, the results 
obtained in the period).  
 
The financial report must render accounts for the expenditures made to date, for 
which, on the one hand, an online spending declaration system will be used that must 
be updated regularly. On the other, the CONICYT must be sent a rendering of 
                                            
1 The date to be considered can either be the date that the announcement was published, or else that 
of the publication request made of the international agency. 
  
 
6 
accounts in original documents according to the procedures indicated in the 
agreement. The payment of second installments will be conditioned on the approval 
of the accounts rendered.  
 
 
In addition, a technical-scientific report through 30 October every year will be 
submitted, regardless of the time that the project has been in execution.  
Furthermore, in the case of projects that hire postdoctoral astronomers 
engaged in science, it is requested that 1 (one) work published in an 
indexed magazine (ISI indicator) be attached at the end of the project. 
 
10.5. The beneficiary must retain all original documents to justify the expenses made with 
the funds provided in the context of this contest. This documentation must be 
available every time that CONICYT requests it to oversee the proper use of the funds. 
In the event that a document is presented and/or declared more than once then the 
project involved will immediately be terminated and the relevant actions will be taken 
for the funds provided to be returned in full.  
 
10.6. It is absolutely forbidden to invest the funds transferred for the development of the 
project in financial instruments (be they long or short term, fixed income or variable) 
and a condition for the unilateral termination of the project will have been fulfilled 
when such operations are engaged in.  
 
10.7. Acknowledgements  
The contribution by the ALMA-CONICYT Fund must be acknowledged in all of the 
activities that it finances, such as scientific publications and reports (articles in 
specialized magazines, theses, papers, etc.), in addition to outreach materials, with the 
following suggested text: “This work received the support of the ALMA-CONICYT Fund, 
Project No….” In the event that equipment is acquired, a plaque must be affixed to it 
that identifies the project number and the  ALMA-CONICYT Fund as the source of 
financing.  
 
 
11. TRANSFERS 
 
11.1. CONICYT will transfer funds subject to compliance with the following conditions: 
 
Complete processing of the administrative action approving the agreement.  
 
For non-state Institutions: Submission of corresponding guarantee(s).  
 
For 
Responsible 
Researchers 
with 
Institutional 
Sponsorship: 
submission of an IOU and mandate signed by the researcher.  
 
For the payment of second installments, submission and approval of the 
project’s technical-scientific and financial reports, the deadlines of which will 
be determined in the agreements.  
 
Budget availability on the part of CONICYT.  
 
11.2. The transfer corresponding to the first year will be made in two installments in cases 
where human resources are hired. One will correspond to the operational costs at the 
beginning of the project and will be transferred once the administrative resolution 
approving the agreement has been fully processed and as long as the CONICYT has 
the budget for it available and the respective guarantee has been provided, where 
appropriate. The second installment will be paid once the hiring has materialized and 
prior submission of the corresponding guarantee, as appropriate.  
  
11.3. The sums adjudicated will be transferred to the main institutional account for 
institutional and multi-institution projects. The beneficiary institution will have an 
  
 
7 
exclusive current account, or else an exclusive cost center (exclusive budget account) 
to administer the incomes and expenditures related to the project. For projects under 
a Responsible researcher with institutional sponsorship, the transfer will be made to 
the Responsible researcher’s account.  
 
 
12. PROJECT MODIFICATIONS 
 
Only on an exceptional basis at the request of the responsible researcher, and in only duly 
justified cases that do not entail increased contributions on the part of CONICYT, will the 
Astronomy Program - in consultation with the ALMA-CONICYT Mixed Committee - be 
empowered to authorize changes to the project that must be formalized in the respective 
agreement amendment, especially with regard to the project deadlines originally 
established.  
 
13. CONCLUSION OF PROJECTS 
 
A project will be considered concluded when the objectives and results it committed to have 
been fulfilled to CONICYT’s satisfaction and the final report and rendering of accounts have 
been approved.  
 
 
14. RESTRICTIONS 
 
14.1. Under no circumstances will private individuals or legal entities with debts or other 
pending contractual obligations or commitments with the CONICYT be allowed to 
participate in this contest.   
14.2. People belonging the ALMA-CONICYT Council at the time of application will not be 
eligible either.  
14.3.   No applications will be accepted outside of the deadline. 
 
15. FULFILLMENT AND INTERPRETATION OF GROUND RULES 
 
15.1 
CONICYT reserves itself the right to interpret the meaning and scope of these ground 
rules in the event of any doubts or conflicts that might emerge regarding their 
contents and application.  
15.2 
 CONICYT can at any time prior to signing and during the execution of the respective 
agreements verify total fulfillment of these ground rules and, more specifically, the 
precision and completeness of the background information presented in the 
respective applications made in the context of this contest, as well as those related to 
backing the required documentation. In the event that inconsistencies, omissions or 
incompatibilities are found, CONICYT will declare the adjudication void or else 
anticipate termination of the agreement.  
15.3 
The files of the applicants that were not adjudicated in this contest will not be 
returned.  
For more information, please write to the following email: www.conicyt.cl/oirs  
For more information, please contact areyes@conicyt.cl 
 
Santiago, July 2011 
