1
 Call for Proposals 
Sources, distribution & impact of  
microplastics in the marine environment
Funding: up to 9.2 million Euro
Deadline: 28.02.2019, 12:00 CE 
                         
T
 2                            
Table of Contents
 
Introduction 
Scientific Framework 
Procedures and Criteria
Eligibility 
General Procedure 
Criteria for Evaluation and Selection 
Call Structure and Management 
Funding 
Eligible budget items 
Further information 
Call Secretariat
Submission of Proposals and Deadline 
3
5
9 
9 
10 
10 
11 
12 
12 
12 
14 
14
1
3
2
                           3
1. Introduction
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
Plastics, synthetic polymers virtually unknown prior to their broad commercialization in the 1950s, are 
nowadays ubiquitous in the environment, and their production continues to rise. The global production 
of plastics was 335 million tons in 2016 (Plastic Europe), of which 60 million tons were produced 
in Europe alone . Plastics are used in a wide range of applications from food packaging, to basic 
household items, personal care products, agriculture and industry. Other sources are the shedding 
of synthetic fibres from polymers (for instance, in clothing, textiles and fishing related items) and the 
rubber particles via roadway runoff.
Plastics in the marine environment have become a major concern because of their persistence at 
sea, and adverse consequences to marine life. According to estimates from Eunomia (2016) between 
27—66.7 million tons of plastic can be found in the world’s ocean as of 2016. 
To add to that, Lebreton et al. (2017)  estimate that between 1.15 and 2.41 million tons of plastic waste 
currently enters the ocean every year from rivers alone whereas Jambeck et al. (2015)  estimate that 
between 4.8 to 12.7 million tons of plastic enter the ocean annually in total. They are not biodegradable, 
but undergo weathering that produce increasingly small particles termed microplastics. 
In the last number of years many governmental initiatives have been launched to reduce the input of 
plastic into the (marine) environment. A ban on microbeads in cosmetics has come into force in many 
countries. Numerous other initiatives and strategies such as plastic bag levies are also emerging and 
taking form across the globe, including in the EU. In January 2018, the EU published its plastics strategy 
that aims to transform the way products are designed, produced, used, as well as recycled in the EU so 
that the 30% recycling rate can be increased dramatically.
However, plastic pollution of the ocean is not only a European but a global problem. The necessity to 
tackle the plastics issue was recognised by both the G7 and G20 countries. In particular, the groups 
of states acknowledge that marine litter, in particular plastic litter, poses a global challenge, directly 
affecting marine and coastal life and ecosystems and potentially also human health. Accordingly, 
increased effectiveness and intensity of work is required to reduce the input of plastic litter into the 
environment. Under the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development of the United Nations countries 
worldwide also pledge to tackle the marine litter issue. With Sustainable Development Goal 14 “Conserve 
and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development” countries 
have pledged to “prevent and significantly reduce marine pollution of all kinds, in particular from land 
based activities, including marine debris and nutrient pollution by 2025”. Better plastic management 
across the world can make a contribution to the objectives of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable 
Development by developing sustainable consumption and production practices, improving waste 
prevention and recycling and preventing marine litter. 
Microplastic particles are a particular aspect of the problem of plastic pollution in the ocean. 
Microplastics can be categorized in primary and secondary microplastics with a size smaller than 5 
mm. Primary microplastics are high production volume materials applied in a large range of products 
as plastic granulates, powders or micro- and nano-spheres. Secondary microplastics result from the 
partial degradation of larger pieces of plastic litter into fragments in the micro-and possibly nano-
size ranges, while decomposition is expected to take place over the course of hundreds of years. 
Therefore now microplastic particles are found in all oceanic gyres, bays, gulfs and seas worldwide. 
 4                            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
Higher concentrations of microplastics were recently reported from Arctic sea ice, from the deep sea 
and also marine regions far away from urban areas. 
The EU Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD – 2008/56/EC) requires the maintenance or 
achievement of Good Environmental Status of the Seas and Oceans in order to protect marine species 
and habitats from human activity. The 2017 Commission Decision 2017/848/EU on the Common 
Understanding of the Directive replacing Decision 2010/477/EU sets out requirements to develop new 
criteria and methodological standards and specifications and standardised methods for monitoring 
and assessment. The Decision requires the development of new mandatory criteria under Descriptor 
10 for litter and micro litter in the environment and the impact of the litter on marine species through 
ingestion and entanglement. This work must be linked to the development of other criteria, threshold 
values and methodologies for other descriptors for marine biological diversity, seafloor integrity and 
contaminants in sea food and requires a transdisciplinary European research initiative. Although micro-
plastic particles can be reliably quantified and identified by using spectroscopic techniques (e.g. FTIR, 
Raman) from a particle size of >10 µm. Pyrolysis-gaschromatography (GC) in combination with mass 
spectrometry (MS) can be used to assess the chemical composition (polymer type) and a quantitative 
analysis of micro-plastics of entire environmental samples. But the preparation of the samples and the 
spectroscopic measurements can take a long time. Marine environment managers involved in MSFD 
and Regional Seas Conventions work on marine litter and its impacts require cost effective, timely 
and standardised methodologies for sampling, analysis and assessments for European monitoring 
programs. The development of new methodologies is necessary for standard operation protocols (SOP) 
for marine micro litter including microplastics.
In the joint transnational call “Ecological aspects of microplastics in the marine environment”, launched 
under the framework of JPI Oceans, four projects were selected for funding from January 2016 for a 
three year period. The project BASEMAN is focused on first steps for defining environmental baselines, 
as well as the development of measurement methods and standards for microplastics analyses in 
European waters - especially for the particle fraction higher than 300 µm.  EPHEMARE studies biological 
effects of marine pollutants at molecular, cellular, physiological and organismic levels through the 
implementation of several experiments in partner laboratories, to allow for detection of effects of 
microplastics across the main phyla of marine organisms from bacteria to fish covering most of the 
trophic levels. PLASTOX investigates the ingestion, food-web transfer, and ecotoxicological impact of 
microplastics, together with the persistent organic pollutants metals and plastic additive chemicals 
associated with them, on key European marine species and ecosystems. WEATHER-MIC assesses 
how microplastic weathering changes its transport, fate and toxicity in the marine environment. In the 
oceans, microplastic particles are exposed to factors including UV light, physical stress and biofilm 
growth on their surface. 
Through these research projects the knowledge about the analysis, weathering and, ecotoxicological 
effects of microplastics in the marine environment has been substantially improved. But not all relevant 
questions have been addressed in the four projects and the knowledge and understanding about 
smaller microplastic particles (from 10 µm to very small particles - nanoparticles) is in particular limited.
One new aspect that just recently started to be addressed is the use of satellite images to directly or 
indirectly observe and reduce uncertainty of the numerical models for identifying and quantifying the 
                           5
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
sources, distribution patterns and sinks of plastics and microplastics in the ocean and in the shorelines. 
Significant progress has been made on remote sensing technologies and some encouraging new 
results have been presented and discussed to advance the global detection of floating marine debris 
and its relationship with microplastics global mapping. But still several relevant questions have not 
been addressed.
Following on from the success and findings of the four projects funded under the first joint transnational 
call of the JPI Oceans microplastic initiative, several funding partners decided to announce a second 
funding opportunity to submit joint international proposals. In view of the global nature of the challenge, 
JPI Oceans is explicitly inviting other international partners to join this initiative. Thereby JPI Oceans is 
aiming to promote transatlantic and global cooperation on the issue, and contribute to the Regional 
Seas Conventions, to the implementation of the Belém Statement as well as G7, G20 and UN aims of 
reducing (micro-) plastic pollution in the ocean.
JPI Oceans is an intergovernmental strategic process that focuses on solving the societal challenges 
related to our seas and oceans that cannot be solved solely on the national level. In JPI Oceans national 
ministries and agencies responsible for research funding seek to define common long-term strategic 
priorities for marine and maritime research and technology development as a basis for strengthening 
cooperation and coordination of national investments in these fields.
2. Scientific Framework
Building on the results from the joint transnational call “Ecological aspects of microplastics in the 
marine environment” and recent scientific findings this joint transnational call intends to increase 
the knowledge about the relevant sources of microplastics, analytical methods for identifying smaller 
micro- and (nano-)plastics, monitoring their distribution and abundance in marine systems  and their 
effects thereon as well as concepts to reduce inputs of plastic into the marine environment. This call 
comprises four main themes:
• 
Identification, characterisation and quantification of the major microplastic sources, especially 
mechanisms and time scales of macroplastic fragmentation
• 
New sampling and analytical  methodologies - focusing on the smaller (nano-)particles and in 
situ measurement methods for all matrices (water, sediment, biota) 
• 
Monitoring and mapping of microplastics in the marine environment including its effects on the 
marine environment
• 
Concepts to reduce inputs of plastics into the marine environment including through new 
recycling methods, raising public awareness, promoting behavioural change, socio-economic 
analyses
 6                            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
i. Identification, characterisation and quantification of the major microplastic 
sources, especially mechanisms and time scales of macroplastic fragmentation 
Microplastic particles of different size fractions can be found in the marine environments where they 
undergo processes of weathering and biofouling. Several key knowledge gaps remain that prevent a true 
understanding of the persistence of plastic in the marine environment. All the established degradation 
mechanisms for plastic in the marine environment share a common issue: they are extremely slow 
processes. The specific degradation rate of a plastic item depends on many factors, including polymer 
type, the presence of additive chemicals, environmental conditions, seasonal differences etc. There is 
very limited information about the different particulate and chemical degradation products that may 
be formed and about their potential transport, behaviour, fate and impacts on the natural environment.
In addition to analytical methods, mathematical methods and models are necessary for a better 
understanding of the fragmentation and aggregation of microplastic in the marine environment. 
Possible proxy functions of "a certain size class" which could potentially be used to predict the 
occurrence of other particles should be explored. However, possible “mathematical links” between 
larger microplastic and smaller particle size are still largely unknown. Similarly, knowledge on the 
extent microplastic particles tend to exist as single free floating particles in the water or tend to form 
larger aggregates (e.g. marine snow) is limited. This could have implications for trophic upgrading of 
microplastic but also, in general, for the sedimentation of microplastic in aquatic systems.
The following objectives should be addressed by submitted proposals and are required for a better 
understanding of the occurrence and spatial variability of microplastics in marine systems:
• 
Fragmentation, aggregation, sedimentation and deposition characteristics of plastic in order to 
understand the fate of microplastics in the marine environment;
• 
Identification, characterisation and quantification of microplastic particles before and after 
weathering in marine systems; 
• 
Investigation of ingested microplastics inside marine organisms - description of residence 
times, degradation and release of degradation product.
ii. New sampling and analysis  methodologies - focusing on the smaller (nano-)
particles and in situ measurement methods
Microplastic particles can be reliably quantified and identified by using spectroscopic techniques 
(e.g. µFTIR spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy). Current methods for detecting and quantifying 
microplastics in the laboratory can however be very costly, time consuming and resource-intensive. 
In addition, the cost of purchasing the instrumentation required for such analyses often prevents 
standardised monitoring and analysis. The development of alternative technologies for analysing and 
characterising microplastic should be considered a research priority and solutions may well come from 
outside the existing research community working in this field. Furthermore, it is suggested that the 
development of methods and technologies to detect, characterise and quantify microplastic remotely 
in the field should have a focus in future research activities. There are promising methods based upon 
silhouette/ holographic imagery and satellite imagery that could be developed and optimised further.
                           7
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
Results of the projects from the first JPI Oceans joint transnational call demonstrate, that the 
low micron-sized plastic particles (<300 µm) are the dominant fraction in the marine environment. 
Concentrations of particles smaller than 10 µm and nanoplastic particles in the marine environment are 
virtually unknown at present. This means that we are potentially missing data and knowledge about 
the bulk of the particles in the marine environment. For the ecotoxicological aspects and the impact 
of the marine organisms the smaller particles are very important. Whilst there is increasing evidence 
that microplastics are unable to transfer across biological membranes and barriers due to their size, 
nanoplastic particles appear to be sufficiently small to undergo this process. This mobility within 
organisms significantly increases the risk of nanoplastic uptake and accumulation and, consequently, 
the increase of adverse effects at cellular and molecular levels. Therefore, analytical methods are 
necessary to identify and quantify such smaller particle sizes.
There are now first studies on the sources of nanoplastic and microplastic litter that give a good 
indication about what the main sources of this pollution are (e.g. car tyres, microfibres from textiles). 
However, a number of these microplastic materials are not amenable to the techniques developed for 
polymere microplastic particles. It would therefore be necessary to encourage projects that include 
defined cases studies (e.g. car tyres or textiles) where the necessary methods are developed (or 
existing methods are modified) to facilitate an investigation of their transport routes, environmental 
sinks and environmental behaviour.
Therefore, we are explicitly calling for proposals for development of new analytical in-situ and field 
methods and improvement of established methods:
• 
For in-situ and field method for routine analysis of microplastic particles > 10 µm;
• 
For the quantification, identification and characterization of microplastic particles < 10 µm (incl. 
nanoplastics);
• 
For the quantification, identification and characterisation of car tyres, microfibres by using 
spectroscopic techniques; 
• 
For the simulation of accelerated macroplastics degradation pathways so that degradation 
mechanisms can be studied within a realistic timescale within the laboratory.
iii. Monitoring and mapping of microplastics in the marine environment including its 
effects on the marine environment 
In the first call “Ecological aspects of microplastics in the marine environment” research focused on 
the development of measurement methods for microplastic in the marine environment. This method 
development should form the basis for baseline studies and risk‐based monitoring, allowing to 
estimate ‐ in combination with ecotoxicological studies ‐ the risks for marine environments and marine 
organisms associated with plastics. In this new call more field measurements to identify and quantify 
microplastic particles in the ocean and shorelines. 
There is an urgent need for a comprehensive and systematic picture of distribution of plastics, 
 8                            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
especially microplastics, in the ocean. The degradation of macroplastic is the dominant source of 
microplastic in the oceans. Therefore, the mapping of macroplastics in the oceans is necessary to 
understand the generation, distribution and fate of microplastics. Remote sensing, aerial and in-
situ observations and advanced numerical models combined together can significantly contribute 
to advance the understanding of the sources, circulation patterns and fate of microplastics in the 
ocean and shorelines. Several projects aiming at the direct or indirect observation of marine litter have 
been developed by space agencies and initial results are very encouraging and they will certainly 
contribute to a better global mapping to assess and monitor the quantity of floating plastics, including 
microplastics, and its correlation with immersed microplastics life cycles and circulation patterns.
Proposals should address the flowing themes:
• 
Quantification of microplastic in marine systems (water, sediment, biota) – spatial distribution 
of microplastic litter, supported by modelling studies;
• 
Assessment of existing technologies for remote sensing and aerial in-situ observation and 
development of new methodologies for remote sensing (sampling, quantifying, monitoring and 
identifying) microplastics in the ocean and coastal areas;
• 
Mapping of microplastic distribution in the oceans and shorelines - combining satellite imagery, 
field data, advanced global and local numerical models to describe the effects on the marine 
environment;
• 
Development of monitoring strategies and methods for the implementation of the Marine 
Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD) and UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and liaison 
with relevant science-policy processes such as the MSFD Technical Subgroup on Marine Litter 
and GESAMP Working Group 40.
iv. Concepts to reduce inputs of plastics into the marine environment including 
through raising public awareness, promoting behavioural change, socio-economic 
analyses
Current evidence does not support the case that plastic pollution in the ocean constitutes a significant 
risk for the marine environment at large, since effects only occur at very high concentrations that 
are far above environmental levels; moreover these effects and concentrations are similar to those 
reported for particulate matter of non-anthropogenic origin. However, due to the persistence, ubiquitous 
presence and potential indirect effects of plastic particles, they represent a hazard and a potential 
planetary boundary threat. There is public awareness and political willingness to take precautionary 
action against plastic. Therefore, it is important to confront our possible ignorance of effects that might 
make plastic a real planetary boundary threat, and to address knowledge gaps regarding the main 
sources of plastic pollution so that emissions can be targeted and reduced. The ultimate goal is a 
circular economy.
Both the recent refusal from China to import and recycle Western waste and the European Strategy 
for Plastics in a Circular Economy show the pertinence of shifting from the current macroeconomic 
approaches towards a more circular economy. Proposals should assess and evaluate the life cycle 
of different polymers, taking into consideration production, supply chains and recycling of plastic 
                           9
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
materials, and understanding their impact on the EU economy. Analyses should identify best‐practice 
initiatives across Europe in order to raise public and stakeholder awareness – ocean literacy – among 
different stakeholder groups (from port and waste managers, to fishermen and consumers) and 
promoting behavioural change. 
Proposals should address the following themes:
• 
Reduction and prevention of plastic inflow into the ocean, e.g. through improved waste 
management systems or through development of new technologies for recycling of plastics, the 
adoption of improved practices, circular models and closed-loop supply chains;
• 
Contributing to ocean literacy by raising of public and citizen awareness about the problem of 
plastic pollution thereby inducing behavioural change;
• 
Assessing the life-cycle impacts of specific plastic polymers and identifying most sustainable 
materials, including alternatives to plastics.  
3. Procedures and criteria
Proposals should address at least one of the four themes in the call text. Applicants are advised to 
consult their national contact points for this call prior to planning and submitting proposals (contact 
person see further information).
a) Eligibility
The call is open to proposals that meet the following criteria:
• 
Applications must be submitted timely, complete and following all the requirements set under 
point i)
• 
The proposal addresses at least one of the four themes in the call text;
• 
The transnational collaboration must have a clear added value for at least one of the four 
proposed research themes.
• 
Research partners who are eligible to apply for financial support from any of the participating 
FUNDING PARTNERS are eligible to apply for funding within this call for proposals; 
• 
Research partners from other countries (ASSOCIATE PARTNERS) or ineligible for the participating 
FUNDING PARTNERS can participate in project proposals on the condition that they provide written 
proof that their part of the project will be covered independently of this call (in kind), however 
they cannot coordinate a project and their contribution to the project should not be essential;
• 
The principal investigator leading an application must be eligible for submitting funding proposals 
to one of the FUNDING PARTNERS; 
 10                            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
Number of applicants per proposal:
• 
Each application must involve eligible research partners from at least three participating 
countries (countries of the FUNDING PARTNERS); no maximum number of partners is specified; 
Funding Period: Project duration should be:
• 
Maximum of three years;
• 
Projects should preferably start on 01.01.2020 (earliest).
The maximum requested funding per proposal is € 2,000,000. The maximum budget per partner and/
or per proposal is specified in the national regulation from each FUNDING PARTNER.
The eligibility criteria specified by the respective FUNDING PARTNERS have to be met. For details 
please check the National annex published on the online submission tool and/or contacts the 
national representative(s) for further advice. https://epss-jpi-oceans.ptj.de/Call 2018.
b) General Procedure 
The following procedure will be applied:
1. 
Proposals must be submitted via a submission platform to the LEAD AGENCY (Project 
Management Juelich) by the coordinator (principal investigator) of the proposal.
2. 
After the submission deadline, all proposals are checked against the mandatory call eligibility 
criteria by the LEAD AGENCY. FUNDING PARTNERS check the eligibility criteria specified in the 
National annex. The national eligibility check will include an ethics screening to ensure that the 
proposals comply with applicable national rules and regulations.
3. 
Eligible proposals are sent to independent, international peer referees for assessment. 
4. 
Principal Investigators will have the chance to rebut.
5. 
An EVALUATION PANEL, consisting of independent, international experts, ranks the proposals 
based on the results of the peer-review procedure (review reports).The EVALUATION PANEL 
recommends the top-ranked proposals for funding.
6. 
The FUNDING PARTNERS jointly agree on a short-list of projects selected for funding out of the 
top-ranked proposals based on the recommendations from the EVALUATION PANEL. 
The composition of the EVALUATION PANEL will be made public after the funding procedure has been 
completed. Strict confidentiality is maintained with respect to the identities of applicants and the 
contents of the proposals throughout the duration of the whole procedure. The list of funded projects 
will be published on the website of JPI Oceans. 
                           11
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
c) Criteria for Evaluation and Selection
Potential applicants are advised to take carefully notice of the aims and scope of the call as 
described above. The following criteria will be applied to assess the quality of proposals:
Scientific quality, including novelty, originality and innovation of the proposed research 
• 
Relevance to the topics of the call
• 
Sound concept and quality of objectives
• 
Innovation level (progress beyond the state of the art)
• 
 Novelty, unique feature
 Quality of applicants and suitability of the consortium, level of integration and collaboration
• 
 Scientific quality of the consortium
• 
 Interdisciplinarity of the consortium
• 
International/ European added value for the proposed research
• 
Management structure and procedure (incl. data management plan)
 Networking and dissemination activities, training opportunities
• 
Level of integration and collaboration
• 
Outreach and Dissemination plan, including science-policy interface
• 
Integration of stakeholder or activities for stakeholder
• 
Training activities for young scientists or students
 Feasibility of the proposed research, suitability of budget request
• 
Work plan and methodology 
• 
Feasibility of deliverables and milestones
• 
Suitability of budget request
d) Call Structure and Management
The principal investigator (PI) should submit a mid-term report including a publishable summary in 
 12                            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
English to the JPI Oceans Secretariat and LEAD AGENCY within three months after the mid-term. 
Furthermore the PI will be responsible to submit a final report to the LEAD AGENCY, in English, within 
three months after the end of the project. This report should cover the work undertaken by all of the 
project partners.
Independent of the reporting to the LEAD AGENCY all project partners need to report to their national 
funding agency in accordance with the relevant national rules of each country.
At the beginning of the projects a joint kick-off meeting with all funded projects will be organised. A joint 
mid-term meeting will be organised half way through the funding period. A joint final conference will be 
organized at the end of the funding period. The FUNDING PARTNERS will organise these three meetings 
in cooperation with the PIs of the funded projects. PIs must include capacity for their participation to 
the three meetings in their proposal, Participants of funded projects are expected to participate in the 
kick-off, mid-term meetings and in the final conference and should include the relevant travel costs in 
their proposal budgets. FUNDING PARTNERS will cover the other costs for the above meetings.
e) Funding
A total amount of up to € 9.2 million has been blocked by the FUNDING PARTNERS from Belgium, Brazil, 
Estonia France, Germany, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Malta, Norway, Portugal, Spain and Sweden for this 
call. Each research partner will be funded by its national funding partner (see point g). The FUNDING 
PARTNERS aim at funding as many top-ranked proposals as possible. 
f) Eligible budget items
Eligible costs are ruled by national regulations (see National Annex). Specific questions should be 
addressed to the national partner organisations (see point g), if possible in advance of submitting an 
application.
g) Further information
Potential applicants are strongly advised to consult the general funding requirements of the national 
organisations participating in the call and to contact the national contact persons whenever necessary, 
especially with regard to eligible costs and other country-specific aspects of the call. 
Contact person Belgium: 
David Cox 
Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) 
Louizalaan 231 Avenue Louise 
1050 Brussels 
Tel: +32 2238 34 03 
Email: david.cox@belspo.be
Contact person Brazil:  
Elisa Natola  
National Council of State Research Support 
Foundations (Confap) 
Tel : +55 61 9 9613.8850 
Email: elisa.confap@gmail.com
         13
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
Contact person Estonia:  
Rene Reisner/ Dr. Katarina Viik 
Ministry of the Environment of the Estonian 
Republic, Marine Environment Department 
Narva mnt 7A 
15172 Tallinn, Estonia 
Tel: +372 626 2855/ +372 626 2949 
Rene.Reisner@Envir.ee/ Katarina.Viik@envir.ee
Dr. Katrin Kello 
Estonian Research Council 
Department of International Research Cooperation  
Soola 8  Tartu 51004, Estonia 
Tel : +372 731 7361 
Email: Katrin.Kello@etag.ee
Contact person France:  
Dr. Claude Yven/ Maurice Heral 
The French National Research Agency (ANR) 
50 avenue Daumesnil 
75012 Paris, France 
Tel: +33 173 54 82 87 
Email: claude.yven@agencerecherche.fr
Contact person Germany:  
Dr. Uwe Selig 
Project Management Juelich 
Schweriner Str. 44 
D-18 069 Rostock, Germany 
Tel: +49 381 20356-295 
Email: u.selig@fz-juelich.de
Contact person Iceland:  
Sóley Morthens 
The Marine and Freshwater Research Institute 
Skúlagata 4, IS-101 Reykjavík 
Tel: + 354 575 2000 
Email: soley.morthens@hafogvatn.is
Contact person Ireland:  
Veronica Cunningham 
Ireland Marine Institute  
Rinville, Oranmore | Co. Galway 
Tel: +353 91 387 532  
Email: veronica.cunningham@marine.ie
Richard Cronin 
Department of Housing, Planning and Local 
Government (DHPLG) 
Tel: +353 761 002 683 
Email: Richard.Cronin@housing.gov.ie
Contact person Italy: 
Aldo Covello/ Mauro Bertelletti 
ltalian Ministry of Education, University and Research 
(MIUR) 
Tel: +39 06 97726465/ +39 06 9772 7902 
Email: aldo.covello@miur.it/ mauro.bertelletti@miur.it
Contact person Malta: 
Corinne Muscat Terribile 
R&I Monitoring Executive | Policy, Strategy and 
Internationalisation Unit 
The Malta Council for Science and Technology  
Villa Bighi, Kalkara KKR 1320 – Malta 
Tel. +356 2360 2152 
Email: corinne.muscat-terribile@gov.mt 
Contact person Norway:  
Marius Omland 
Research Council of Norway (RCN) 
Drammensveien 288, 
PO Box 564 
1327 Lysaker, Norway 
Tel: +47 938 17 508 
Email: mo@rcn.no
Contact person Portugal: 
Dr. Marta Norton/ Sofia Cordeiro 
Science & Technology Foundation 
(FCT) Av. D. Carlos I 
1249-074 Lisboa 
Tel: +351 21 391 1565 
Email: marta.norton@fct.pt
Contact person Spain: 
Abraham Trujillo  
Spanish State Research Agency (AEI) 
Paseo de la Castellana, 162. 28046, Madrid, 
Spain Tel: +34 916038359 
Email: oceans@aei.gob.es
Contact person Sweden:  
Dr. Petra Wallberg 
The Swedish Research Council for Environment, 
Agricultural Sciences and Spatial Planning 
(FORMAS) Tel:+ 46 8 775 41 27 
Email: petra.wallberg@formas.se 
 14            
Joint Call “Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment”
h) Call Secretariat
The call will be run by Project Management Juelich (PTJ), Div. MGS. The CALL SECRETARIAT is responsible 
for organizing the evaluation procedure and for all communication with coordinators regarding their 
applications.
i) Submission of Proposals and Deadline
The language of the application is English. Applications must be submitted electronically to PTJ via 
the link provided on the website https://epss-jpi-oceans.ptj.de/Call2018.
The use of the official application form for this call is mandatory. Instructions and guidelines for 
submitting applications can be found on the website. In case of technical questions, please contact 
the call secretariat (show website).
The deadline for submitting proposals is 28.02.2019, 12:00 CET. Applications received after the 
deadline will not be considered.
////
                           15
 16                            
JPI Oceans
Rue du Trône 4   |   1000 Brussels   |   Belgium
Tel. +32 (0)2 626 16 60   |   Fax: +32 (0)2 626 16 61   |   jpioceans@rcn.no
www.jpi-oceans.eu
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
      
Joint call for proposals under the framework of JPI Oceans on 
 
 
“Sources, distribution & impact of microplastics in the marine environment” 
 
 
 
 
20.11.2018 
 
 
 
 
 
Version: 2018/11/20 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
1 
 
 
CONTENT 
 
1. 
Background .............................................................................................................................................. 1 
2. 
Process overview ...................................................................................................................................... 1 
3. 
Template proposal ................................................................................................................................... 3 
 
1. Background 
The Call Announcement of the joint call provides the essential information about the evaluation procedure, 
eligibility and evaluation criteria. These guidelines briefly explain some technical issues related to the proposal 
submission. 
2. Process overview 
The procedure is divided into several steps: submission, eligibility check and evaluation of full proposals. One 
joint proposal should be prepared by the consortium members. The proposals must be electronically submitted 
by the project coordinator via the online submission tool available at https://epss-jpi-oceans.ptj.de/Call2018. 
 
Submission of a proposal 
The proposal consists of different parts which have to be filled in online. First, the coordinator has to register in 
the submission tool. A user can be registered several times in the submission tool with the same e-mail account but 
different usernames, one for each proposal. In this way, a correct assignment to proposals is ensured in the 
submission tool. 
After registration a link will be sent to the registered e-mail account to activate the registration. 
The coordinator can enter, edit and save the electronic forms, add partners to the consortium upload the project 
description and submit the proposal. Partners can enter and edit their own data only. 
In addition, the coordinator may reedit and resubmit the proposal before the submission deadline. In this 
case, only the latest submitted version will be used for evaluation. Proposals can only be submitted and/or 
modified prior to 12:00 CET on 28 February 2019. 
After successful submission the coordinator as well as the partners will receive an automatically generated 
confirmation of receipt. 
Each project coordinator should make sure to register early enough. After the deadline, the website will neither 
accept modification nor submission of any proposal. The project coordinator should also not underestimate 
the effort needed to collect the required information from their project partners or fill in the online forms. 
Therefore it is strongly recommended to submit the first version of proposals well before the deadline. 
The information given in the proposal is binding in terms o f consortium composition and maximum requested 
budget. The project description presents the scientific part. Please keep in mind that the project description should 
allow experts to evaluate its relevance to the aim of the call and its excellence despite the limited space for details. 
The project description cannot exceed the limited characters in each section.  
The limits in the template are given and have a maximum number of characters (4000 characters are 
approximately one A4 page of text). Please use only the formatting in the submission tool - remove all formatting 
before copy the text in the submission tool. 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
2 
 
Up to five figures can be embedded in the text through place markers. The figures should be uploaded as .jpeg, 
.gif or .png files and should have a maximum size of 600 pixels. 
Only the newest uploaded file will be saved. If the project description is not uploaded to the proposal, that 
particular proposal will be considered ineligible. 
The proposal must be filled out online in the submission tool https://epss-jpi-oceans.ptj.de/Call2018. A template is 
attached. 
If consortium partners are requested to submit separate or different proposal documents towards their 
national funding organization, the consortium partner(s) concerned shall submit these documents directly to the 
respective national / regional funding organization. 
 
Eligibility check of proposals 
The proposals will be checked whether they can be considered eligible regarding to eligibility criteria as laid down in 
the Call Announcement. Every partner country has individual funding conditions and eligibility criteria. Please check 
the national regulation.  
Please note: If one partner of a consortium does not fulfil their national/regional eligibility criteria, the whole 
consortium will be deemed ineligible. 
 
It is the responsibility of the consortium coordinator to verify that the consortium fulfils the Call eligibility criteria 
and that all partners fulfil their national/regional eligibility criteria. In case of uncertainty regarding eligibility 
criteria, please contact the National Funding Partners. 
 
If a proposal is ineligible, the Call Office will inform the coordinator. 
Each proposal will be at least checked for eligibility at the Call Office and at national level.  
All proposals were review from independent referees. An Evaluation Panel ranks the proposals based on the peer-
review procedure. A final selection of proposals will be done in a meeting of the management committee. The Call 
Office will inform the coordinators about the evaluation results of the proposals. 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
3 
 
3. Template proposal 
The proposal consists of different parts which have to be filled in online. Please note that you can save your text 
only if it does not contain more characters than pre-defined within the submission tool.  
 
 
1. REGISTRATION : In order to use the Electronic Submission and Evaluation System, the project coordinator 
has to register via the website: https://epss-jpi-oceans.ptj.de/Call2018  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
4 
 
2. ACCOUNT: Coordinators can change the password in this section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. COORDINATOR PROFILE The project coordinator has to fill in the registration form, on which most of the 
fields are mandatory: details like salutation, family name, first name, affiliation and address details. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please note: the project coordinator has to be from a country participating in this call and has to have a funding organisation 
assigned to him. The relevant funding organisations can be chosen from a dropdown menu. 
Please note that the registration will not proceed if one of these fields is empty (except for area and region, as they are optional 
fields). The project coordinator should treat the password confidentially. He should not give his password to other people, 
including proposal partners. 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
5 
 
4.          PARTNERS details like salutation, family name, first name, affiliation and address details 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Just click on “Add Partner” and enter the relevant details. In case a consortium partner drops out during the 
submission process, it is possible to remove the partner from the list by clicking on “Remove Partner” and add the 
replacement as a new partner.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
     
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
6 
 
5. PROJECT (Project data): Project title, acronym, duration, priority area, topics must be filled in next. 
Please note: Please attach the proposal to one or more topics of the call. If more than one topic is addressed in 
your proposal, please indicate the percentage in the text field under the selection menu. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Keywords: Maximum 5 keywords related to your project, separated by comma. keywords enable effective 
expert selection to evaluate your proposal, 5 keywords maximum 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The next several sections comprises fields for project summary, state of the art, objectives, description of the 
research plan, dissemination, networking, international cooperation, project management etc..  
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
7 
 
7. PROJECT Summary/ Abstract (2.000 characters1): summary, general objectives of the project (strategic, 
commercial, etc.), scientific and/or technological aims of the project, relevance to the scientific scope 
(including sub-theme) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8. STATE OF THE ART (25.000 characters) in research and development (including alternative solutions, 
Intellectual property protection rights, information search), earlier research activities and experience of 
partners in the proposed field. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 The number of character incl. spaces 
 
                                                                 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
8 
 
9. Project Objectives/ Description (25.000 characters) general objectives of the project, scientific and/or 
technological aims of the project, relevance to the scientific scope of the Call (including sub-theme); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
10. Detail description of working plan (1.000 character per work package, task, milestones) - proposal 
objectives, methodology, research design, first work plan details with of assignment of personnel 
capacity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please note: please describe in detail your Work packages and Tasks and enter Milestones and Deliverables for each Work 
package by klick on the symbols. You can extend the list if it is needed. The submission tool automatically generates a Gantt 
chart. Please check in the factsheet the presentation of the work packages. 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
9 
 
 
11. Dissemination, Outreach, networking, training opportunities (8.000 characters) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12. International Cooperation - Affiliation with (inter)national research programmes (6.000 characters) 
European added value in carrying the work at European level, clear added value in carrying out the work 
at trans national level, solving of societal or environmental problems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
10 
 
 
13. Description of project management incl. data management (6.000 characters) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Scientific publications (6.000 characters) - Other relevant publications with respect to the application in 
addition to the partner profile 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
11 
 
 
15. FINANCIAL PLAN organization name, personnel, travel, material, equipment, consumables, other costs 
like subcontracts, depreciation and rent/leasing, overheads, requested funding, total own contribution, 
total costs. Some types of costs may not be fundable by all funding organisations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16. FINANCIAL COMMENTS (1.000 characters) please enter a brief description regarding your costs, for 
overhead costs national regulations apply, if you have other costs please specify. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
12 
 
 
17. Additional Information please uploads a PDF document, which relevant documents (letter of intent - 
please no CV from all partners) up to 1 MB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. FIGURES you have the opportunity to upload up to 5 images, to insert them, you enter the place marker 
"[[figureX]]" into your text (where the image should appear), by replacing the X with the number of the 
image you create the link to the image, allowed formats are jpg, png or gif, the max file size: 600px x 
600px, 2 MB. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
13 
 
 
19. FACTSHEET the coordinator and the partners can download the work version (the current state of your 
entered data) as well as the finalized version (the state of your entered data from your last submit). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20. VALIDATION the proposal is ready for submission if all fields are green and the comment says “validation 
successful, ready to submit”, please have in mind that this is no guaranty that all pages are filled in 
properly. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 JPI Oceans Call microplastic II 
Guidelines Proposal Submission 
14 
 
 
 
21. SUBMIT you have to confirm the following declarations after validation: 
The project applicants hereby declare, that to the best of their knowledge the research outlined in this 
proposal is unique in character and does not duplicate research already funded at national, regional or EU 
level, within national, regional, international or EU calls. 
The applicants confirm that they are aware that failure to fulfil this condition will result in the withdrawal 
of this proposal from the application process or the withdrawal of funding from approved projects. 
The proposal is line with the guidelines to ethical aspects of the Horizon 2020 Programme: here  
 
In a final step the coordinator confirms that they are aware that failure to fulfil this condition will result in 
withdraw of this proposal from the application process or withdraw of funding from approved projects. 
The final step is to enter the submission button. After that A SUBMITTED PROPOSAL EXISTS. You have already 
submitted a proposal but you can resubmit at any time until the closing date. 
 
 
 
 Check list of eligibility for the Priority Area/ thematic topics 
 
 
Topic 1 
Topic 2 
Topic 3 
Topic 4 
Funding organisation 
Identification, 
characterisation, 
quantification …. 
New sampling and 
analytical  
methodologies  … 
Monitoring and 
mapping  ... 
Concepts to reduce 
inputs of plastics 
…. 
Belgium: 
Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Brazil:  
National Council of State Research Support Foundations (Confap) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Estonia:  
Ministry of the Environment of the Estonian Republic and Estonian 
Research Council 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
France:  
French National Research Agency (ANR) 
eligible 
eligible 
not eligible 
eligible 
Germany:  
Project Management Juelich/ on behalf of BMBF 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
not eligible 
Iceland:  
The Marine and Freshwater Research Institute (MFRI) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Ireland:  
Marine Institute  and Department of Housing, Planning and Local 
Government (DHPLG) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Italy: 
ltalian Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Lativia: 
Ministry of Education and Science(IZM)  
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Malta: 
Malta Council for Science and Technology 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Norway:  
Research Council of Norway (RCN) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
Portugal: 
Science & Technology Foundation (FCT) 
not eligible 
not eligible 
eligible 
not eligible 
Spain: 
Spanish State Research Agency (AEI) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
 not eligible 
Sweden:  
Swedish Research Council for Environment, Agricultural Sciences and 
Spatial Planning (FORMAS) 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
eligible 
 
