1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RCUK – CONFAP RESEARCH PARTNERSHIPS CALL FOR PROJECTS 
 
 
 
Research Councils UK (RCUK) (http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/) and the Brazilian Council of State Funding 
Agencies (CONFAP) (www.confap.org.br; http://confap.org.br/news/en/presentation/) are pleased to 
invite applications for the Newton Fund RCUK-CONFAP Research Partnerships call. The aim of this 
call is to provide flexible short-term support for small-scale research and networking activities, with the 
objective of establishing sustainable collaborations between UK and Brazilian researchers that will 
lead to excellent research (i.e. developing new knowledge that cannot be achieved through existing 
international collaborations).  
 
The Newton Fund is a new initiative intended to develop the long-term sustainable growth and welfare 
of the partner country through building research and innovation capacity, and forms part of the UK’s 
Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment. This call aims to build relationships between the 
UK and Brazil and applications must specifically address poverty alleviation or development issues. 
More detail is provided under the ‘Eligibility’ section below. 
 
Applications that address the following areas are particularly welcomed:  
• 
Health 
• 
Urban transformations 
• 
Food energy water environment nexus 
• 
Biodiversity ecosystems and resilience 
• 
Economic development and welfare reform 
 
Applications across all research areas are also eligible, as long as they make a strong case for UK-
Brazil collaboration and are ODA compliant. Recognising the multidisciplinary nature of the highlight 
areas, the development of interdisciplinary collaborations is particularly welcome 
 
Further information on the highlight areas is included in Appendix I. 
 
The awards will be up to 12 months in duration and funded to a maximum of £50k (direct costs only 
at 100%) by RCUK with support for matched effort from CONFAP. (See ‘Eligible Costs’ section for 
details).   
 
The deadline for receipt of applications is 17 October 2014 at 16:00 hrs UK time/12:00 hrs Brazil 
time. Successful grants will be announced in December 2014 with start dates no later than 1 
January 2015.  
 
A single, joint application should be developed by the Brazilian and UK applicants using the application 
form available to download from the call page at http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/ .  
 
The form must be completed by both applicants and sent to international@rcuk.ac.uk (for UK 
applicants) and to fundonewton@confap.org.br (for Brazilian applicants) by the call deadline. 
 
 
 2 
 
Objectives 
  
To provide flexible short-term support for small-scale joint research and networking activities that are 
exploratory in nature. The longer term objective is to establish sustainable collaborations between UK 
and Brazilian researchers that will increase the competitiveness of these researchers in gaining funds 
for excellent research in future funding calls, either under the Newton Fund or through other routes.  
 
RCUK and CONFAP have identified the following areas for UK-Brazil research collaboration: 
• 
Health 
• 
Urban transformations 
• 
Food energy water nexus 
• 
Biodiversity ecosystems and resilience 
• 
Economic development and welfare reform 
 
Further information on the highlight areas is included in Appendix I. 
 
 
Eligibility 
 
The lead UK applicant must be a RCUK award holder i.e. currently in receipt of research funding from 
one of the UK Research Councils or Research Council-funded Institutes, Units or Centres. The 
Brazilian lead applicant must be from a State whose FAP has signed up to the NEWTON FUND-
CONFAP Memorandum of Understanding. 
 
The AHRC exceptionally allows Principal Investigators who do not have a current award but have 
been in receipt of an AHRC award in the last 5 years (from application deadline).  
 
The ESRC recognises that in some of the areas identified above it does not presently have a large 
portfolio of current awards. Therefore, exceptionally the ESRC will consider proposals from UK based 
applicants currently not in receipt of research funding from one of the UK Research Councils. In such 
cases the proposals must be from applicants located in a research group or cluster, in an institution 
eligible for ESRC funding, with a significant portfolio of externally funded research within the broad 
theme of the application. The ESRC will also accept applications from UK based previous award 
holders and named co-investigators under our Pathfinders, Rising Powers and ESRC/DFID Poverty 
Alleviation initiatives. 
 
The applicant’s associated grant must have started before the application deadline.  
 
The application to RCUK must state the grant reference which gives evidence of the lead PI’s eligibility 
to apply or, where applicants are based in a Research Council Centre, the name of the project. 
 
The presence of a Research Council funded studentship award does not confer eligibility for these 
awards.  
 
Applications may include Co-Investigators from across several institutions both within the UK and 
Brazil.  
 
The Newton Fund requires that the funding be awarded in a manner that fits with Official Development 
Assistance (ODA) guidelines.  All applications under this call must therefore be compliant with these 
guidelines. The collaborative project could be addressing development goals of relevance to the 
partner country, in which case the partnership should seek balanced participation, or otherwise may be 
focused on capacity building in areas of Brazilian need.  
 
 
Eligible costs 
 
The maximum budget for the UK side of the collaboration is £50,000 direct costs only. The FAP 
involved will make an equivalent contribution for Brazil-based researchers. It is envisaged that 
applications will be for a balanced partnership, with equivalent resource commitment from both funders, 
 3 
 
but applicants should justify clearly all financial requests.  
 
Funds can be used for travel, subsistence and other networking or collaborative activities, such as 
workshops, summer schools and exchanges (in either direction: from and to the UK). Funds can also 
be used to support direct research costs; funding for staff time will be considered in exceptional 
circumstances. 
 
 
Application process and assessment criteria 
 
Applicants should submit a joint proposal using the official application form available at 
http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/  
 
The form must be completed by both applicants and sent to international@rcuk.ac.uk (for UK 
applicants) and to fundonewton@confap.org.br (for Brazilian applicants) by the call deadline. 
 
Applications to this call will be assessed by both CONFAP and RCUK through a joint review process. 
Final decisions will be made jointly between RCUK and CONFAP. 
 
Proposals will be assessed against the following criteria:  
• 
Scientific merit of the proposal 
• 
Added value to applicants’ ongoing research programme(s) 
• 
Demonstration of the need for and added value of the partnership between UK and Brazil 
based applicants 
• 
Potential to deliver longer term benefit and impact 
• 
The uniqueness of the opportunity and expertise of the partners 
• 
The opportunities for development of capacity and expertise 
• 
The strategic relevance of the partnership to the Newton Fund  
 
 
Terms and conditions 
Grants will be awarded under standard UK Research Council Terms and Conditions. 
 
 
Contacts 
 
For further information, UK applicants should contact: international@rcuk.ac.uk 
 
Brazil-based applicants should contact: aci@fapemig.br or duvidasfundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br 
for applicants from the State of Rio de Janeiro. 
 
 
Please note that further guidance for applicants, including information on ODA compliance for UK 
applicants, will be made available together with the application form from 18 August 2014. 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
APPENDIX I 
RCUK-CONFAP HIGHLIGHT AREAS 
• 
Health 
• 
Urban transformations 
• 
Food energy water environment nexus 
• 
Biodiversity ecosystems and resilience 
• 
Economic development and welfare reform 
 
HEALTH 
Global health research is a major focus for the UK and the overarching objective of this research is to 
support work that addresses the inequalities in health, particularly where they arise in developing 
countries. The changing burdens of disease across the world bring new opportunities for global health 
research to benefit health in the UK and in Brazil. We welcome applications addressing health issues 
of particular relevance to the Brazilian population. As is consistent with the overarching ambitions of 
the Newton Fund, we would like to support health research in disease areas which impact the poorest 
and most vulnerable in society, including indigenous and rural populations, the elderly, and women and 
children living in poverty. Areas of interest include, but are not limited to, infectious diseases (including 
neglected tropical diseases), nutrition, child and maternal health and ageing, and non-communicable 
disease. We welcome applications from across the research spectrum, from basic medical research to 
health interventions and health systems. 
 
URBAN TRANSFORMATIONS 
Major changes are taking place in cities across the globe, both in developing countries and in the 
developed world. The majority of people now live in urban areas and the urban population in 
developing countries will cross 50% by 2030. Urban transformations are increasingly seen as the 
causes and potential solutions of broader economic, cultural and environmental change. 
The concepts and concerns associated with Urban Transformation are global – even through 
experience of them is diverse. Urban conditions in developing countries are extremely varied and 
shape governmental institutions and capacity. Some are experiencing rapid population expansion in 
high growth environments, while others are growing but not creating economic opportunities. Other 
cities are expanding both physically, and with increasingly diverse populations, but experience conflict 
and violence. Many cities lack effective governance and genuine community and citizen engagement.  
Strengthening city government will be crucial for growth, inclusion and prosperity, to address critical 
policy issues and strengthen political legitimacy. Cities are places with a strong historical legacy where 
people live and work. This rapid change in infrastructure, landscape and demography and the 
associated technical and environmental challenges are enormous.  
A research perspective is vital for understanding the impact and significance of these transformations 
for the welfare and wellbeing of urban citizens across the globe.  These transformations are producing 
or reframing existing problems and generating complex opportunities and challenges for policy makers, 
practitioners and communities themselves. The increasing resurgence of policy interest in cities offers 
a major opportunity for research to generate fresh evidence, shape debates and to devise solutions for 
major urban challenges in the UK and internationally.  
Therefore, we welcome applications for Research Partnerships between Brazilian and UK researchers 
in order to develop new international collaborations to contribute new knowledge and evidence on 
these major urban policy challenges. It is expected that Research Partnerships supported under this 
call will establish links with appropriate projects supported under the current call between the FAPESP- 
ESRC-NWO on Sustainable Urban Development. 
 
 5 
 
FOOD ENERGY WATER ENVIRONMENT NEXUS 
The ‘nexus’ is a way of thinking about the interdependencies, tensions and trade-offs between 
essential ecosystem services such as food, water and energy, in the wider context of land use, 
environmental change and health and wellbeing. These different systems are inextricably linked, and 
improvements in one sector can have adverse impacts in another. The nexus requires a deep 
understanding of multi-functional landscapes and ways to manage the environment sustainably for 
multiple ecosystem services. It is underpinned by a number of cross-cutting areas, for example: valuing 
nature; sustainable prosperity and the green economy; sustainable behaviour across supply chains; 
health and nutrition; resource efficiency; sustainable intensification; forecasting extreme weather; and 
climate-resilient agriculture. For example, how can agriculture produce more using less land, water and 
energy, whilst reducing waste and maintaining other ecosystem services and the natural capital on 
which it and they depend? The nexus requires interconnected thinking across the natural and social 
sciences, and between researchers, policy, business and civil society. 
Areas of interest for the UK include: 
• 
Re-envisaging growth for a sustainable future; resilience and societal transformations; 
consumption, behaviour and socio-cultural change; public policy shaping, framing and 
learning; governance arrangements for sustainable resource use; and new data methods, 
skills and approaches. 
• 
Sustainable, resilient and efficient food and non-food production systems supplying not 
only sufficient, affordable, nutritious and safe food, but also non-food products and 
feedstocks, while mitigating impacts on the environment and taking into account the need 
for multi-functional landscapes. 
• 
Understanding how the processes of natural variability and manmade change work – as a 
whole Earth system, from global to local scale, from millions of years past to the present 
and into the future; developing whole-system knowledge to inform responsible 
management of the environment for multiple benefits. 
• 
Understanding how environmental processes (physical, chemical and biological processes 
that interact in land, water and air) control resource* availability and how we can use 
resources responsibly; developing this knowledge to help use and recycle resources safely 
and efficiently, to live within the Earth’s limits, and to steward natural resources for future 
generations. 
* (food, water, energy, minerals and other essential services we get from nature such as ecosystem 
services) 
 
BIODIVERSITY ECOSYSTEMS AND RESILIENCE 
There is increasing pressure on the environment both from human impact and from changing climate, 
and at a time where sustainable development is a key priority globally, there are many competing 
demands on the environment. There is a need to ensure that ecosystem management contributes to 
poverty alleviation as well as to inclusive and sustainable growth and the associated challenges need 
to be addressed using experience across disciplines as well across national boundaries. Working with 
Brazil on this agenda brings huge opportunity, with the rich, valuable and diverse ecosystems and at 
the same time continued economic growth resulting in change in resource and land use. Areas of 
interest include: 
• 
understanding how the processes of natural variability and manmade change work as a whole 
Earth system across time and geographies, developing whole system knowledge to inform 
responsible management of the environment for multiple benefits;  
 
• 
understanding how environmental processes (physical, chemical and biological interacting in 
land, water and air) control resource availability and how we can use resources responsibly; 
developing this knowledge to help use and recycle resources safely and efficiently, to live 
within ecosystem limits, and to steward natural resources for future generations 
 6 
 
• 
Impacts on ecosystems can be gradual and longer term or can be as a result of catastrophic 
and sudden events, often unpredictable in nature. Developing policy and action to help better 
prepare for such events, mitigating the impacts and also responding effectively, is also a key 
area of interest. This includes: 
• 
Understanding the processes that create natural and man-made hazards (for example, 
extreme weather, space weather, pollution, novel diseases and invasive species), so that we 
are better equipped to manage vulnerability, risk, response and recovery; working with 
partners to use this science to make people, business and infrastructure more resilient to 
environmental hazards and emergencies. 
 
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AND WELFARE REFORM 
Economic growth is often assumed to be one of the most important means to reduce poverty in the 
developing world – it creates jobs and opportunities for poor people to support their families and build 
more sustainable futures. However, the impact of economic growth on the poor in developing countries 
is complex and contentious.  Growth and development are not synonymous, and inequality can be a 
barrier for growth, which has to be sustainable, sustained and inclusive to deliver the best outcomes. 
Many developing countries face particular challenges that make it difficult for them to stimulate and 
sustain economic growth. These challenges include weak institutions, high unemployment, and poor 
infrastructure, a lack of access to financial services and unsuitable laws and regulations. Sustainable 
development requires sound foundations, universal access to education and health services, access to 
financial services, new technologies and affordable bank loans, gender equality and more equal 
distribution of resources can all support economic development. A stable and predictable operating 
environment is a prerequisite for private sector investment. Good governance should be promoted and 
corruption tackled at all levels in both private and public sectors. 
While Brazil has moved up the ranks of the world’s largest economies while making economic growth 
ever more inclusive, the challenge now for Brazil is how to create the conditions that will allow further 
improvements to living standards and sustain reductions in income inequality. Sustainable future 
growth will also require responsible use of environmental resources, particularly renewables.   Also 
while Brazil is geographically, politically, economically and culturally different from many developing 
countries, there are also potentially positive and negative lessons which can be learnt from Brazil’s 
economic growth for other developing countries and their efforts to promote economic growth, while at 
the same time reduce poverty and inequality and enhance the well-being of their citizens.  
Therefore, we welcome applications for Research Partnerships between Brazilian and UK social 
scientists in order to develop new international collaborations which will consider how Brazil can 
continue to create the conditions that will allow further improvements to living standards and sustain 
reductions in income inequality and also proposals which consider what lessons can be learnt from 
Brazil’s economic development for other developing countries.  
  
 
 
Chamada de Projetos de Pesquisa em Parceria – RCUK e CONFAP 
 
  
 
O Conselho de Pesquisa do Reino Unido (RCUK, na sigla em inglês) e o Conselho Nacional das 
Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (CONFAP) estão contentes em receber propostas 
para a chamada do Fundo Newton RCUK – CONFAP de Pesquisas em Parceria. O propósito 
desta chamada é prover apoio flexível de curto prazo para pesquisas de pequena escala e 
atividades de networking, com o objetivo de estabelecer colaborações sustentáveis entre 
pesquisadores brasileiros e do Reino Unido (UK) que irão resultar em excelência em pesquisa 
(por exemplo, desenvolver novos conhecimentos que não seriam obtidos  com as parcerias 
internacionais existentes). 
O Fundo Newton é uma iniciativa nova que busca desenvolver o crescimento e o bem-estar 
social sustentável de longo prazo da nação parceira por meio da construção de habilidades em 
pesquisa e inovação, e faz parte do compromisso do Reino Unido com a Ajuda Oficial ao 
Desenvolvimento (ODA). Esta chamada se propõe a construir relações entre o Brasil e o UK e  
as propostas devem ser relacionadas especificamente aos temas de combate à pobreza ou a 
questões relacionadas ao desenvolvimento. Mais detalhes serão dados na seção “Propostas 
elegíveis” abaixo. 
Propostas relacionadas às seguintes áreas serão particularmente bem-vindas; 
1. Saúde. 
2. Transformações Urbanas. 
3. Alimentos, Água, Energia e Meio Ambiente e suas Relações. 
4. Biodiversidade e Ecossistemas.  
5. Desenvolvimento Econômico e Reforma do Bem-Estar Social. 
 
 
Propostas que perpassem todas as áreas também serão aceitas, desde que apresentem uma 
argumentação forte em favor da colaboração entre Brasil e Reino Unido e que estejam de 
acordo com a ODA. 
 
Mais informações sobre as áreas em destaque estão incluídas no Apêndice I. 
 
O apoio terá a duração de até 12 meses e um limite de até £50.000 (cinquenta mil libras 
esterlinas), com custos diretos apenas a 100%, concedidos pelo RCUK com apoio para os 
esforços combinados pelo CONFAP. Para maiores detalhes, ver a seção “Recursos 
Financeiros”). 
 
A data limite para o recebimento de propostas é 17 de outubro de 2014 às 16 horas, horário de 
Londres, 10 horas horário de Brasília. Os subsídios vencedores serão divulgados em dezembro 
de 2014, com datas de início dos trabalhos o mais breve possível após o anúncio.  
  
 
 
Uma única requisição conjunta deve ser desenvolvida por candidatos do UK e do Brasil, 
utilizando o formulário de requisição disponível para download na página da Chamada 
em  http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/.   
 
O formulário deve ser preenchido por ambos os candidatos e enviado para 
international@rcuk.ac.uk 
(para 
candidatos 
do 
Reino 
Unido) 
e 
para 
fundonewton@confap.org.br (para candidatos brasileiros) até o prazo de encerramento 
da Chamada. 
 
ATENÇÃO: O formulário de inscrição, juntamente com orientações relevantes para os 
candidatos, estará disponível em  
 http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/ a partir de 18 de agosto de 2014. 
 
Objetivos: 
 
Prover apoio flexível de curto prazo para atividades conjuntas de pesquisa de pequena 
escala e de networking que sejam de natureza exploratória. O objetivo de longo prazo é 
estabelecer cooperações sustentáveis entre pesquisadores do UK e do Brasil que irão 
aumentar a competitividade de tais pesquisadores na obtenção de fundos para pesquisas 
de excelência em chamadas para financiamento futuras, sejam via Fundo Newton ou em 
outras oportunidades. 
 
RCUK e CONFAP identificaram as seguintes áreas para colaboração conjunta entre UK 
e Brasil: 
 
 
1. Saúde. 
2. Transformações Urbanas. 
3. Alimentos, Água, Energia e Meio Ambiente e suas Relações. 
4. Biodiversidade e Ecossistemas. 
5. Desenvolvimento Econômico e Reforma do Bem-Estar Social. 
Mais informações sobre as áreas em destaque estão em destaque no Apêndice I 
 
 
Propostas elegíveis 
 
O requerente principal do Reino Unido já deve ter sido beneficiado pelo RCUK, por 
exemplo, deve estar recebendo financiamento de um dos Conselhos de Pesquisa do 
Reino Unido ou de Institutos, Centros de Pesquisa ou Unidades financiados por um 
Conselho de Pesquisa. O requerente principal do Brasil deve ser de um Estado cuja FAP 
seja signatária do Memorando de Entendimento Fundo Newton – CONFAP. 
 
O AHCR permite, excepcionalmente, pesquisadores principais que atualmente não 
possuem financiamento, mas que o tiveram da AHRC nos últimos 5 anos, contados a 
partir da data limite. 
  
 
 
 
O ERSC reconhece que atualmente, em algumas áreas descritas acima, não há um 
grande portfólio de financiamentos. Nesse sentido, excepcionalmente, o ERSC irá 
considerar propostas de candidatos baseados no Reino Unido que atualmente não sejam 
detentores de financiamento de pesquisa de um dos Conselhos de Pesquisa do UK. Em 
tais casos, as propostas devem ser de candidatos ligados a um Centro de Pesquisa ou 
Cluster, em uma instituição elegível de financiamento pelo ERSC, com um portfólio 
significativo de pesquisas financiadas dentro do tema geral da sua proposta. A ERSC 
também receberá inscrições de detentores de financiamento anteriores localizados no 
Reino Unido, a serem nomeados co-investigadores sob as iniciativas Pathfinder, Risisng 
Powers e ERSC/DFID Poverty Alleviation. 
 
A concessão associada do requerente deve ter iniciado antes do fim do prazo de 
inscrição. 
 
A inscrição ao RCUK deve indicar a referência da concessão que evidencie a 
elegibilidade do pesquisador principal ou, no caso de candidatos ligados a um Centro de 
Pesquisa, deve constar o nome do projeto. 
 
A presença de um estudante com bolsa financiada por um Conselho de Pesquisa não 
confere elegibilidade para este fundo. 
 
Requerimentos podem incluir co-investigadores de diversas instituições, tanto do UK 
quanto do Brasil. 
 
O Fundo Newton requer que o financiamento seja concedido de uma maneira que se 
encaixe nas diretrizes da ODA. Todas as propostas submetidas a esta chamada devem, 
portanto, ser compatíveis com essas diretrizes. O projeto colaborativo pode estar 
relacionado a adereçar objetivos de desenvolvimento relevantes à nação parceira, sendo 
que, neste caso, a parceria deve buscar uma participação balanceada ou, em caso 
contrário, pode ser focado na construção de capacidades em áreas necessárias ao Brasil. 
 
Recursos financeiros 
 
O orçamento máximo da parte do Reino Unido é de £50.000 em custos diretos. A FAP 
envolvida irá fazer uma contribuição equivalente para pesquisadores residentes no 
Brasil. É previsto que as propostas sejam para uma parceria balanceada, com 
comprometimento de recursos equivalente de ambas as partes financiadoras, mas os 
candidatos devem justificar claramente todas as requisições financeiras. 
 
Os recursos podem ser utilizados para viagens, subsistência e outras atividades 
colaborativas e de networking, tais como workshops, summer schools e intercâmbio de 
pesquisadores (de ambas as partes: partindo ou com destino ao UK). Recursos também 
podem ser usados para financiar custos diretos da pesquisa; financiamento ao tempo de 
equipe (staff) será considerado em circunstâncias excepcionais. 
 
  
 
 
Processo de Requisição e Critérios de Avaliação 
 
Candidatos devem submeter uma proposta conjunta utilizando o formulário de 
requisição oficial disponível em: http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/ 
 
O formulário deve ser preenchido por ambos os candidatos e enviado para 
international@rcuk.ac.uk 
(para 
candidatos 
do 
Reino 
Unido) 
e 
para 
fundonewton@confap.org.br (para candidatos brasileiros) até o prazo limite da 
Chamada. 
 
ATENÇÃO: O formulário de inscrição, juntamente com orientações relevantes para os 
candidatos, estará disponível em  
 http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/international/newton/confap/ a partir de 18 de agosto de 2014. 
 
Inscrições para esta chamadas serão avaliadas pelo CONFAP e pelo RCUK por 
intermédio de um processo de avaliação conjunta. Decisões finais serão feitas 
conjuntamente entre RCUK e CONFAP. 
 
As propostas serão avaliadas com base nos seguintes critérios: 
 
- O mérito científico da proposta. 
- Valor adicional para o (s) programa (s) de pesquisa em curso dos requerentes. 
- Demonstração da necessidade e valor da parceria entre os requerentes residentes no 
Brasil e no UK. 
- Potencial para proporcionar benefícios e impactos a longo prazo. 
- A singularidade da oportunidade e experiência dos parceiros. 
- As oportunidades para o desenvolvimento de habilidades e competências. 
- A importância estratégica da parceria para o Fundo de Newton. 
 
Termos e Condições 
 
As bolsas serão concedidas nos termos e condições-padrão dos Conselhos de Pesquisa 
do UK 
 
 
Contatos 
  
Para mais informações, os candidatos do Reino Unido devem contactar: 
international@rcuk.ac.uk  
 
Candidatos residentes no Brasil devem entrar em contato: aci@fapemig.br  
 
Outras orientações para os candidatos, incluindo informações sobre a compatibilidade 
com a ODA para os candidatos do Reino Unido, será disponibilizada juntamente com o 
formulário de inscrição de 18 de agosto de 2014. 
 
  
 
 
APÊNDICE I 
Áreas em Destaque pelo RCUK e CONFAP 
 
 
1. Saúde. 
2. Transformações Urbanas. 
3. Alimentos, Água, Energia e Meio Ambiente e suas Relações. 
4. Biodiversidade e Ecossistemas. 
5. Desenvolvimento Econômico e Reforma do Bem-Estar Social. 
 
 
Saúde 
 
Pesquisa global em saúde é um grande foco no UK e o objetivo geral desta pesquisa é 
apoiar trabalhos relacionados às desigualdades na saúde, particularmente quando estas 
surgem em nações em desenvolvimento. Os encargos mutáveis das doenças ao redor do 
mundo trazem novas oportunidades em pesquisa mundiais sobre saúde que beneficiem 
o UK e o Brasil. Serão bem-vindas propostas direcionadas a questões de saúde de 
particular relevância para a população brasileira. Sendo consistentes com as ambições 
gerais do Fundo Newton, nós gostaríamos de apoiar pesquisas sobre  doenças que 
impactam os mais pobres e mais vulneráveis na sociedade, incluindo populações 
indígenas e rurais, os idosos, mulheres e crianças em situação de pobreza. Áreas de 
interesse incluem, mas não são limitadas a, doenças infecciosas (incluindo doenças 
tropicais negligenciadas), nutrição, saúde infantil e materna e envelhecimento, e 
doenças não-transmissíveis. São bem-vindas as inscrições de todo o espectro de 
pesquisa, desde a pesquisa médica básica a intervenções de saúde e sistemas de saúde. 
 
Transformações Urbanas 
 
Grandes mudanças estão sendo levadas a cabo em cidades ao redor do mundo, em 
países em desenvolvimento e no mundo desenvolvido. A maioria da população agora 
reside em áreas urbanas, e a população urbana em países em desenvolvimento vai 
cruzar a marca dos 50% por volta de 2030. Transformações urbanas são crescentemente 
vistas como as causas e as potenciais soluções de mudanças econômicas, culturais e 
ambientais mais amplas. 
 
Os conceitos e preocupações associadas com a transformação urbana são globais – 
apesar da experiência deles ser diversa. Condições urbanas em países em 
desenvolvimento são extremamente variadas e moldam instituições e capacidades 
governamentais. Algumas estão experimentando rápidas expansões populacionais em 
ambientes de grande crescimento, enquanto outras estão crescendo, mas não criando 
oportunidades econômicas. Outras cidades estão expandindo tanto fisicamente, e com 
uma população crescentemente diversa, mas estão experimentando de conflito e 
violência. Em muitas cidades falta governança efetiva e engajamento comunitário e 
  
 
 
cidadão genuíno. Fortalecer os governos das cidades será crucial para o crescimento, 
inclusão e prosperidade, e tratar de questões de políticas públicas críticas, e fortalecer a 
legitimidade política. Cidades são locais com um forte legado histórico onde pessoas 
moram e trabalham. As rápidas mudanças em infraestrutura, no cenário, na demografia 
e os desafios técnicos e ambientais associados são enormes. 
 
Uma perspectiva de pesquisa é vital para o entendimento do impacto e a significância 
dessas transformações para o bem-estar social de cidadãos urbanos ao redor do mundo. 
Tais transformações estão produzindo ou reenquadrando problemas existentes e 
gerando oportunidades complexas e desafios para os tomadores de decisão, 
profissionais e as próprias comunidades. O crescente ressurgimento de interesse de 
políticas públicas em cidades oferece uma grande oportunidade para pesquisa para gerar 
evidências novas, moldar debates e criar soluções para grandes desafios urbanos no 
Reino Unido e no exterior. 
 
Nesse sentido, são bem-vindas inscrições para pesquisas em parceria entre 
pesquisadores brasileiros e do UK com o intuito de desenvolver novas colaborações 
internacionais para contribuir com novos conhecimentos e evidências nesses grandes 
desafios de políticas públicas urbanas. É esperado que as parcerias de pesquisa apoiadas 
sob esta chamada irão estabelecer conexões com projetos apropriados apoiados sob a 
chamada atual entre a FAPESP- ESRC-NWO sobre desenvolvimento urbano 
sustentável. 
 
 
Alimentos, Energia, Água e Meio Ambiente e suas Relações 
 
 “Relações” é uma maneira de pensar sobre as interdependências, tensões e trade-offs 
entre serviços essenciais do ecossistema, tais como alimentos, água e energia, no 
contexto amplo de uso da terra, mudança ambiental, e saúde e bem-estar. Esses sistemas 
diferentes são inextricavelmente ligados, e melhorias em um setor podem trazer 
impactos adversos em outros. A “relação” requer um profundo entendimento de 
cenários multifuncionais e maneiras de gerenciar o meio ambiente de maneira 
sustentável para múltiplos serviços de ecossistemas. Ele é sustentado por um número de 
áreas transversais, por exemplo: valorização da natureza; prosperidade sustentável e a 
economia verde; comportamento sustentável através de cadeias de suprimentos; saúde e 
nutrição; eficiência de recursos; intensificação sustentável; previsões de climas 
extremos; e agricultura resistente ao clima. Por exemplo, como pode a agricultura 
produzir mais usando menos terra, água e energia, concomitante reduzindo  
desperdícios, mantendo outros serviços de ecossistemas e o capital natural ao qual ele 
depende? As ligações requerem pensamentos interconectados através das ciências 
naturais e sociais, e entre pesquisadores, políticas públicas, negócios e a sociedade civil. 
Áreas de interesse para o Reino Unido incluem: 
 
  
 
 
- Repensar o crescimento para um futuro sustentável; resiliência e transformações na 
sociedade; consumo, comportamento e mudança sociocultural; formulação, concepção e 
aprendizado de políticas públicas; arranjos de governança para uso sustentável de 
recursos; e métodos, habilidades e abordagens de novos métodos de dados. 
- Sistemas de produção de alimentos e não-alimentos que sejam sustentáveis, resistentes 
e eficientes que forneçam não apenas alimentos acessíveis via preços ,nutrição e 
alimentação segura, mas também não-alimentos tais como matérias-primas, ao passo 
que mitigam impactos no meio ambiente e levam em conta a necessidade de cenários 
multifuncionais. 
- Entender como os processos de variabilidade natural e de mudança feita pelo homem 
funcionam – como um sistema terrestre como um todo, da escala global para local, de 
milhões de anos atrás até o presente e em direção ao futuro; desenvolvendo 
conhecimento de todo o sistema para informar gerenciamento responsável do meio 
ambiente para múltiplos benefícios.  
- Compreendendo como processos ambientais (processos físicos, químicos e biológicos 
interagem na terra, água e ar) controlam a disponibilidade de recursos* e como nós 
podemos utilizar recursos de uma maneira responsável; desenvolvendo esse 
conhecimento para ajudar usar e reciclar recursos  de forma segura e eficiente, viver nos 
limites da Terra, administrar recursos naturais para gerações futuras. 
*(alimentos, água, energia, recursos minerais e outros serviços essenciais que 
nós obtemos da natureza tais como serviços de ecossistema) 
 
Biodiversidade e Ecossistemas 
 
Há uma crescente pressão no meio ambiente, tanto pelo impacto humano quanto da 
mudança climática, e numa época em que o desenvolvimento sustentável é uma 
prioridade global, existem muitas demandas competitivas no meio ambiente. Há uma 
necessidade de garantir que a gestão do ecossistema contribua para a redução da 
pobreza, bem como para um crescimento inclusivo e sustentável e os desafios 
associados devem ser lidados usando-se da experiência por entre as disciplinas, bem 
como através das fronteiras nacionais. Trabalhando com o Brasil nessa agenda traz 
grande oportunidade, com os ricos, valiosos e diversos ecossistemas, e ao mesmo tempo 
com crescimento econômico continuado, resultando em mudanças no uso da terra e dos 
recursos. Áreas de interesse incluem: 
 
- Compreender  o processo de variabilidade natural e mudanças feitas pelo ser humano 
modifica o trabalho e o sistema terrestre como um todo através do tempo e geografias, 
desenvolvendo sistema de conhecimento holístico para informar ao gerenciamento 
responsável do meio ambiente para múltiplos benefícios. 
 
- Compreender como os processos ambientais (processos físicos, químicos e biológicos 
interagem na terra, água e ar) controlam a disponibilidade de recursos* e como nós 
podemos utilizar os recursos de uma maneira responsável; desenvolvendo esse 
conhecimento para ajudar, usar e reciclar recursos de uma forma segura e eficiente, 
  
 
 
vivendo nos limites dos ecossistemas, administrando os recursos naturais para gerações 
futuras. 
 
- Impactos nos ecossistemas podem ser graduais e de longo prazo ou podem ser o 
resultado de eventos catastróficos e repentinos, frequentemente imprevisíveis na 
natureza. Desenvolver políticas públicas e ações que ajudem a se preparar melhor para 
tais eventos, mitigando os impactos e também respondendo uma forma eficaz, também 
é uma área de interesse chave. Isso inclui: 
  
- Compreender como os processos que criam danos naturais ou feitos pelo ser humano 
(por exemplo, condições climáticas extremas, clima espacial, poluição, novas doenças e 
espécies invasivas) com o intuito que fiquemos melhor equipados para gerir riscos, 
vulnerabilidade, resposta e recuperação; trabalhar com parceiros para usar essa ciência 
para fazer pessoas, negócios e infraestruturas mais resilientes aos perigos ambientais e 
emergências. 
 
Desenvolvimento Econômico e Reforma do Bem-Estar Social 
 
 
Crescimento econômico é frequentemente visto como um dos mais importantes meios 
para reduzir a pobreza no mundo em desenvolvimento – ele cria emprego e 
oportunidades para que as pessoas pobres possam sustentar suas famílias e construir 
futuros mais sustentáveis. Contudo, o impacto do crescimento econômico na população 
pobre em países em desenvolvimento é complexo e contencioso. Crescimento e 
desenvolvimento não são sinônimos, e desigualdade pode ser uma barreira ao 
crescimento, que deve ser sustentável, sustentado e inclusivo para entregar os melhores 
resultados. 
 
Muitas nações em desenvolvimento enfrentam desafios particulares que tornam difícil 
para eles sustentarem e estimularem o crescimento econômico. Tais desafios incluem 
instituições fracas, alto desemprego, uma fraca infraestrutura, a falta de acesso a 
serviços financeiros e leis e regulações inadequadas. Desenvolvimento requer 
instituições sólidas, acesso universal a educação e serviços de saúde, acesso a serviços 
financeiros, novas tecnologias e empréstimos bancários que não sejam caros, igualdade 
de gênero e uma distribuição de recursos de uma forma igualitária podem todas apoiar o 
desenvolvimento econômico. Um ambiente operacional estável e previsível é um pré-
requisito para o investimento do setor privado. Boa governança deve ser promovida e a 
corrupção combatida em todos os níveis nos setores públicos e privados.  
 
Enquanto o Brasil tem subido nos rankings das maiores economias do mundo tornando 
o crescimento econômico mais inclusivo, o desafio agora para o Brasil é como criar as 
condições que permitirão melhorias posteriores nos padrões de vida e sustentar 
reduções na desigualdade de renda. Crescimento futuro sustentável irá também requerer 
uso responsável de recursos ambientais, em especial os renováveis. Ademais, enquanto 
  
 
 
o Brasil é diferente dos demais Estados em desenvolvimento nos aspectos geográfico, 
econômico, político e cultural, existem também lições positivas e negativas que podem 
ser apreendidas do Brasil para as outras nações em desenvolvimento e seus esforços 
para promover crescimento econômico, e, ao mesmo tempo, reduzir a pobreza e a 
desigualdade e aumentar o bem-estar de seus cidadãos. 
 
Nesse sentido, serão bem-vindos projetos de pesquisa em parceria entre pesquisadores 
sociais do Brasil e do Reino Unido com o intuito de desenvolver novas colaborações 
internacionais que considerarão os desafios do Brasil em criar as condições que 
possibilitarão melhorias futuras no padrão de vida e sustentarão as reduções da 
desigualdade de renda e também propostas que considerem quais lições podem ser 
apreendidas do desenvolvimento do Brasil para outras nações em desenvolvimento.  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Official Development Assistance – RCUK Newton Fund Guidance 
 
 
• 
The following text has been developed to provide general guidance on ODA 
compliance to applicants for Newton Fund grants.  
• 
It is intended as general guidance only and is not officially endorsed by the 
OECD.  
• 
It comprises the total guidance on ODA provided to all those who undertake 
peer review for Research Council led Newton Fund calls. 
 
 
The Newton Fund 
 
1. 
The Newton Fund is an initiative intended to strengthen research and innovation 
partnerships between the UK and emerging knowledge economies. The Fund forms part 
of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment which is monitored by 
the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). ODA funded 
activity focuses on outcomes that promote the long-term sustainable growth of countries 
on the OECD Development Assistance Committee list and is administered with the 
promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main 
objective. Newton Fund countries represent a sub-set of this list. 
 
2. 
The Newton Fund requires that the funding be awarded in a manner that fits with ODA 
guidelines. All applications under this programme must therefore be compliant with 
these guidelines. It should be noted that only the UK part of the funding must be 
compliant with ODA guidelines; partner countries do not need to comply. As projects are 
expected to be collaborative in nature, it is strongly advised that their theme/topic is 
ODA compliant. Where there are highlight areas in calls, these will have been designed 
to adhere to ODA guidance, but applicants should still ensure that their proposal and its 
implementation is compliant with ODA guidelines. 
 
 
Overall principle of ODA 
 
3. 
‘Is it ODA?’ (http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/34086975.pdf) states that: 
 
“ODA is defined as those flows to countries and territories on the DAC List of ODA 
Recipients1 and to multilateral development institutions which are: 
• 
provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their 
executive agencies; and 
                                                 
1 http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/DAC%20List%20used%20for%202012%20and%202013%20flows.pdf 
  
 
  
 
• 
each transaction of which: 
a) is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of 
developing countries as its main objective; and 
b) is concessional in character and conveys a grant element of at least 25% 
(discounted at a rate of 10%).” 
 
4. 
All Newton Fund awards made by the Research Councils automatically comply with (b). 
Applicants and reviewers need to concentrate on ensuring that (a) is met by the 
proposal they are writing or reviewing. 
 
 
 
ODA compliant research activities 
 
5. 
The OECD defines ODA compliant research activities as follows: 
 
“Research includes financing by the official sector, whether in the donor country or 
elsewhere, of research into the problems of developing countries. This may be either (i) 
undertaken by an agency or institution whose main purpose is to promote the economic 
growth or welfare of developing countries, or (ii) commissioned or approved, and 
financed or part-financed, by an official body from a general purpose institution with the 
specific aim of promoting the economic growth or welfare of developing countries. 
Research undertaken as part of the formulation of aid programmes in central or local 
government departments or aid agencies is considered as an administrative cost.” 
(DAC Statistical Reporting Directives, http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/38429349.pdf, 
51.iv) 
 
 
6. 
Some other categories of activity similar to potential Newton Fund activities are counted 
as ODA: 
 
“Development-oriented social and cultural programmes provide basic facilities or training 
to enhance the social and cultural development of nationals of developing countries… 
As well as educational services, they will typically…include finance for the provision of 
books, periodicals, the creation or operation of libraries, provision of prizes, and the 
running of seminars, philosophy and humanistic studies, the consolidation of a recipient 
country’s cultural heritage (including archaeological projects)…” 
(DAC Statistical Reporting Directives, http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/38429349.pdf, 
51.iv) 
 
Key ODA compliance issues to note in writing and reviewing applications for funding 
 
7. 
Any Newton Fund project must make it clear that its primary purpose is to promote the 
economic development and welfare of the partner country. Applicants should consider 
how their project will: 
• 
address poverty and development issues; 
• 
address the issue identified effectively and efficiently;  
• 
use the strengths of the UK to address the issue; 
• 
demonstrate that the research component is of an internationally excellent 
standard. 
 
8. 
Any benefit to the UK has to be the secondary consideration and should not lead to a 
project being funded if it doesn't primarily deliver the development objective.  
 
  
 
9. 
Applications will be assessed by a competitive peer review process with ODA eligibility 
being a gateway criterion for approval. UK peer reviewers will be provided with this 
guidance and where necessary administrative desk checks will also be undertaken to 
identify projects that are or are not ODA compliant. 
 
General points to consider in writing and reviewing applications for funding 
 
(These are provided as additional guidance only, and as a list of potential considerations in 
assessing ODA compliance are not exhaustive.) 
 
10. The fund can support research and innovation capacity building to address the 
development issues in two ways: at a country level, increasing the skills and knowledge 
base and supporting the development of the research infrastructure; and at a sector 
specific level in areas that the partner country has identified as being important for 
welfare enhancement and economic growth.  
 
11. Capacity building should be aimed at improving partner countries’ ability to undertake 
and disseminate research in order to maximise its impact on the issues of poverty and 
their economic growth. Activity in this area can cover pure and applied science and be 
multi-disciplinary in nature. For example, up-skilling in mathematics, physics, chemistry, 
astronomy, agricultural sciences, ICT, engineering, environmental sciences, leadership 
and management etc. 
 
12. The partner country must be able to demonstrate existing or potential ability to grow 
industry (or other relevant sector) with the capacity to make use of the research, and 
there should be a clear route into supporting key economic sectors, or addressing 
development and poverty challenges in the partner country. 
 
13. Projects would not be acceptable if the focus was on commercialisation of research 
outside of the partner country, or where the ownership of the resulting IP is to pass to 
partners outside of the partner country, unless there was a clear plan to build new 
businesses/business growth in the partner country as part of a collaboration with 
international partners and within a wider global market strategy 
 
14. Projects would not be acceptable if the focus was on small numbers of SMEs that are 
randomly selected, are in sectors primarily of interest to the donor country, or not in high 
priority sectors for the partner country where the expectation would be that they would 
have only a marginal impact on the partner country’s economic growth. 
 
15. Engaging with enterprises can be included in ODA where the outcome is clearly 
primarily with a development outcome. The aim should be to identify solutions that are 
more than just a single product within a market but ones that address broad market 
failures or key systemic challenges that exist. 
  
ESTADO DE GOIÁS 
FUNDAÇÃO DE AMPARO À PESQUISA 
 
