
NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
1 
 
NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS                           
GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS  
APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
Countries included in this call are: 
 Brazil | Egypt | Indonesia | Kenya | Malaysia | Mexico | Philippines | Thailand  
 
Call opens: 3 April 2017  
Call closes: 13 June 2017 16:00 UK time  
1. Background 
The Newton Fund aims to build UK-partner country collaborations centred on shared research 
and innovation challenges which have direct relevance to Newton partner countries’ social 
welfare and economic development. It is managed by UK Government’s Department for 
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, and delivered through 15 UK delivery partners in 
collaboration with 16 partner countries. 
Tackling global challenges – such as extreme weather conditions, urbanisation, access to 
affordable health care, food and energy security, and meeting the social and economic needs of 
a growing population – requires an integrated research and innovation approach, bringing 
together communities from different disciplines, sectors and countries in high-quality 
collaborations. 
The Newton Fund Institutional Links Programme is designed to establish links beyond the level of 
the individual researcher and innovation practitioner, opening up opportunities for sustainable, 
solution-oriented research and innovation collaborations between academic groups as well as 
with the private and third sector. 
2. Overview of the funding opportunity 
Newton Fund Institutional Links grants provide small-scale seed funding for collaborations 
between the UK and the participating Newton Fund countries1 in each call to: 
• 
Initiate new research and innovation collaborations between academic groups, departments, 
and institutions in partner countries and the UK 
• 
Develop existing collaborations at group, departmental, and institutional level 
• 
Encourage these collaborations to work with non-academic organisations and individuals to 
support the exchange of research and innovation expertise and the translation of research 
knowledge into tangible benefits 
                         
1 Links with particular additional countries may be possible in individual calls; please check Appendix 1  
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
2 
 
• 
Establish local hubs for UK-partner country activity in a particular area, enabling engagement 
from the wider research and innovation community. 
The Institutional Links Programme is designed to be flexible and responsive to in-country needs, 
allowing applicants to establish collaborations on specific areas linked to country priorities and 
development needs, and to bring in relevant private and third sector partners, including small and 
medium enterprises (SMEs), non-governmental organisations (NGOs), technology transfer 
offices, and other not-for-profit organisations. 
Grants range from £50,000 to £300,000 for up to two years, dependent on the country (see 
Appendix 1 for country-specific limits). 
For best fit to the local context and development needs, priority areas, specific innovation 
challenges and additional application requirements have been set at a country level through 
discussion with national stakeholders. Please refer to Appendix 1 for country-specific 
guidance before you prepare your proposal. Proposals which do not follow the 
country-specific guidance cannot be considered for funding. 
3. Scope of the programme 
Grants under the Newton Fund Institutional Links Programme allow partners to collaborate 
internationally, and gain access to new research environments, facilities, knowledge, and 
expertise, in order to enhance the quality of their research and enable them to translate research 
and innovation into economic and societal benefit. 
All research and innovation collaborations funded by this Programme will: 
• 
Establish new research and innovation links, or significantly develop existing links, 
between research groups, departments or institutions with the potential for 
longer-term sustainability. A key aim of the collaboration will be to support research and 
innovation capacity building in the partner institution, as well as to stimulate longer-term links 
between the UK and partner countries for research and innovation. We would encourage 
applicants to use this as an opportunity also to engage with the commercial and not-for-profit 
sectors. 
• 
Focus on topics or themes which have relevance to the economic development and 
welfare of the partner country. Institutional Links grants are intended to support areas 
relevant to the economic development and social welfare of partner countries. Before 
preparing your proposal, please see section 4 for a definition of development-relevant 
research and Appendix 1 for additional priority or challenge areas for individual countries. 
Wherever possible, Institutional Links collaborations should demonstrate how they will benefit the 
wider research and innovation community in the partner country. 
Collaborations may also be established as UK-partner country centres of excellence – based in 
the partner country – in a particular research area, acting as a resource hub for the wider 
research community in-country and a focal point for other activities, (e.g. seminars, technical 
training workshops). 
Countries to be involved in the April 2017 call are: 
Brazil | Egypt | Indonesia | Kenya | Malaysia | Mexico | Philippines | Thailand 
When designing your proposal, you should consider how best to involve early career researchers 
to promote their development and, more generally, to build researcher capacity, especially in the 
partner country. 
Newton Fund Institutional Links grants can cover costs which support research and innovation 
collaboration, including: human resources costs; travel costs associated with exchange of 
researchers, students and staff from partners and other organisations; the costs of organising 
meetings, seminars and training; and other activities to establish and strengthen collaborative 
links. Grants can also include a limited contribution to other research-related costs (including 
equipment, consumables and non-staff fieldwork costs); however, this is capped at 30% of the 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
3 
 
total value of the grant. As funding for the project can be disbursed via both the UK and the 
partner country funding agencies, in some countries there may be restrictions on partner country 
costs – please refer to Appendix 1 for details. 
Institutional Links grants can also support the training of technical staff, or finance other activities 
necessary for the translation of the research into benefit, thereby laying the foundations for 
longer-term impact on the research and innovation landscape, and on economic development 
and social welfare. All expenditure must be detailed in the budget spreadsheet provided at the 
following link: www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-institutional-
links-april-2017 
 
In addition, a summary of costs to be covered by the grant must be included in the online 
application form and must contain justifications, (e.g. periods of research assistant time, why 
consumables or equipment are needed). Six-monthly financial reporting on grant expenditure, 
and narrative reporting using ResearchFish will be required as a condition of the grant. 
4. Relevance to economic development and social welfare (Official 
Development Assistance (ODA) eligibility) 
For the purpose of the Newton Fund Institutional Links Programme, we define research and 
innovation with development relevance as activities that have the potential to contribute to the 
economic development and social welfare of Newton Fund low- and middle-income countries2, 
benefitting low-income and vulnerable populations in these countries. 
In order to be considered for funding under the Newton Programme, all proposals must clearly 
articulate a plausible pathway to positive impact on these populations within a short- to 
medium-term timeframe (3–15 years). Applications which do not meet this criterion cannot 
receive UK Newton Fund support. 
In some disciplines, development relevance can be longer-term and less direct than in other 
areas and impact may be societal. In all cases, it is the responsibility of the applicant to articulate 
how the research area or activity proposed will meet these criteria. Applicants should not expect 
reviewers to make assumptions about development impact that is not clearly described within the 
proposal. 
Under this call, the following research and innovation challenge areas will be given priority 
(unless specified further in Appendix 1 for individual countries). Multidisciplinary proposals 
are welcome in five panel areas: Biological and Medical Sciences; Engineering and Physical 
Sciences; Environment, Agriculture and Food Sciences; Social Sciences; and Arts and 
Humanities. The challenge areas are as follows: 
• 
Agriculture, (e.g. irrigation, crop yields) 
• 
Climate and environment, (e.g. climate change, green technology, sustainable development, 
ecosystem services, resource scarcity) 
• 
Sustainable energy for all 
• 
Education research and innovation for development 
• 
Economic growth, (e.g. equitable growth, financial sector development, private sector 
development) 
• 
Health, (e.g. HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, neglected tropical diseases, child mortality, 
maternal health) 
• 
Water and sanitation 
• 
Food and nutrition (including food security) 
                         
2 As defined by the OECD DAC list of official development assistance (ODA) recipients 
http://www.oecd.org/dac/stats/documentupload/DAC%20List%20of%20ODA%20Recipients%202014%20final.pdf 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
4 
 
• 
Demographic change and migration 
• 
Rural and urban development 
• 
Infrastructure (including civil engineering, information and communication technologies, big 
data for social and economic development, transportation) 
• 
Humanitarian disasters and emergencies, disaster risk reduction 
• 
Resilient and connected communities 
• 
Governance, society and conflict, (e.g. transparency, accountability, effective institutions, 
land and natural resource rights, poverty alleviation, social development, structural 
inequalities, violence and security, peace building, civil society) 
• 
Development-relevant data collection, quality and access (including administrative data and 
macroeconomic statistics). 
For more on our approach to ODA, please see http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/. 
In order to show development relevance within the context of their proposed project, applicants 
are advised to include within their application reference to any local or national consultation, links 
to government policies, and existing links with government institutions. 
Agreements for ownership and exploitation of intellectual property generated through project 
activities must be consistent with the primary aim of addressing development issues. 
5. Eligibility 
Proposals must fulfil the following criteria in order to be eligible for funding under this Programme: 
• 
Each proposal must have one Principal Applicant from the UK and one Principal Applicant 
from the partner country 
• 
Both Principal Applicants must be Leading Researchers3 or Established Researchers3 
• 
Principal Applicants must be permanent employees of one of the following (this means that 
Emeritus and Honorary Professors may not apply as lead): 
• 
A not-for-profit higher education institution with the capacity to undertake high-quality 
research, unless specified otherwise in Appendix 1 
• 
A UK higher education institution (all UK higher education institutions are eligible) 
• 
A not-for-profit research organisation with the capacity to undertake high-quality 
research4A Catapult Centre5 (in the case of the UK Principal Applicant) 
• 
Both of the Principal Applicants’ institutions (the ‘Lead Institutions’) must have the capacity to 
administer the grant. 
• 
Individual departments within a single institution can make multiple applications per call 
provided that the proposed activities are clearly different 
• 
Principal Applicants may only submit one Institutional Links application per Institutional Links 
call. 
• 
Principal Applicants that have received Institutional Links grants in previous years can 
submit further applications for Institutional Links provided the proposed activities are clearly 
distinct from, or build on, any already funded through the Newton Fund. Principal Applicants 
may not apply if they have already received an Institutional Links grant that year. 
                         
3 For an indication of profiles for the two categories, we suggest applicants refer to the European Commission document 
‘Towards a European framework for research careers’ 
https://cdn5.euraxess.org/sites/default/files/policy_library/towards_a_european_framework_for_research_careers_final.pdf 
4 Please see the list here https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/eligible_uk_research_organisations_v.10.pdf for a list 
of eligible UK research organisations. 
5 https://www.innovateuk.org/-/catapult-centres 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
5 
 
• 
Organisations affiliated to higher education institutions in the UK or any other country and 
based in the partner country, (e.g. an overseas campus) may apply as the Lead Institution in 
the partner country provided that other eligible higher education institutions or research 
organisations are also involved as Associated Partners in-country. 
• 
Organisations cannot apply as Lead Institutions in Links with their own affiliates in other 
countries. 
To support the translation of research and innovation into benefit, Principal Applicants are 
encouraged to include in their proposals Associated Partners affiliated with: 
• 
Other research or higher education institutions 
• 
Technology transfer offices 
• 
Not-for-profit organisations (including NGOs) 
• 
For-profit/commercial organisations(including SMEs) 
Not-for-profit higher education institutions or publicly-funded research organisations are eligible 
to apply as Lead Institutions. 
For-profit organisations and not-for-profit organisations can participate in but are usually not 
eligible to apply for Institutional Links grants. Furthermore, for-profit organisations are not 
eligible to receive any grant funds except to cover travel-associated costs. 
Eligibility checks will be applied to all proposals on receipt. Proposals which are not led by a 
recognised not-for-profit higher education institution or a publicly-funded research organisation 
(unless specified otherwise in Appendix 1) will be rejected during these checks. Please see 
Appendix 2 for a full list of eligibility criteria. 
If you are unsure about your organisation’s eligibility, for UK see the link at Footnote 4; for partner 
countries, please contact the local British Council office. 
6. Funding available 
The level of grant funding available from the Newton Fund depends on the country: please see 
Appendix 1 for country-specific guidance and funding limits. 
Funds will be disbursed directly to the Lead Institution(s), (i.e. the Principal Applicants’ 
institutions) according to the approved final budget. Applicants may be asked to adjust their 
budget if their request does not fit within funding guidelines. 
An advance payment of 60% of the Newton Fund grant will be made on signature of the grant 
agreement, followed by two payments of 20% dependent on approval of reports by the British 
Council.  Please note that payment ratios can vary for different countries.  
In some cases the whole grant will be awarded to the UK Lead Institution, which will then 
disburse the funds to the Lead Institution in the partner country; in other cases there is a separate 
grant agreement with each Lead Institution. 
Lead Institutions may transfer funding to Associated Partners for activities which support the 
objectives of the collaboration and the overall Programme6. Any costs of Associated Partner 
contributions should be included in the proposed budget for the respective country. As detailed 
above, for-profit organisations are not eligible to receive any grant funds except to cover 
travel-associated costs. 
Please note that Appendix 1 specifies further, country-specific information on eligible and 
ineligible costs. 
Please complete the budget spreadsheet as provided on the call website with details of all costs: 
                         
6 Note that for-profit organisations are only eligible to receive funds to cover travel-associated costs. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
6 
 
www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-institutional-links-april-
2017 
 
Please also complete the budget summary on the online application form with the totals from 
your budget spreadsheet and a brief justification for the amounts applied for. 
The following sections detail the costs that can and cannot be included in your budget request. 
6.1 Eligible costs 
Institutional Links grants are intended to contribute to the direct costs of establishing and 
operating your collaboration, (i.e. costs directly related to implementing activities contained in the 
proposal). 
The British Council is committed to equal opportunities and diversity and will consider, on a case 
by case basis, requests for support to encourage under-represented groups to engage in 
Institutional Links activity, so long as sufficient justification is provided. 
Institutional Links grants can cover: 
Category 
Type 
Percentage 
limits 
Notes 
Human 
Resources costs 
Staff costs for 
personnel working 
directly on the 
grant-funded project: 
salaries and fees of 
temporary research 
and research 
assistant personnel, 
and other staff 
recruited to work on 
the project, for 
example data 
collection staff in 
partner country. 
None 
See country 
specific 
guidance for 
more details 
This includes on-costs 
such as superannuation, 
and national insurance 
payments. 
Indirect costs cannot be 
covered and are assumed 
to be contributed by the 
principal institutions. 
A proportion of staff 
costs for permanent 
staff of lead 
institutions. 
Limited to 
30% of total 
human 
resources 
costs funded 
by the grant 
This includes on-costs 
such as superannuation, 
and national insurance 
payments. 
If you would be unable to 
deliver your proposed 
project without a higher 
contribution to permanent 
staff costs, please contact 
UK-InstitutionalLinks@briti
shcouncil.org with a 
justification and we will 
consider your case. Please 
note that we would 
normally limit this to the 
stated 30% of HR costs of 
universities. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
7 
 
Category 
Type 
Percentage 
limits 
Notes 
Other research 
related costs 
Essential research 
equipment for use on 
the project. 
Limited to 
30% of total 
grant (unless 
specified in 
Appendix 1). 
If the applicant requests 
more than 30% of the total 
budget requested under 
this category, the project 
will be considered 
ineligible. 
Permission must be 
obtained from British 
Council before the 
purchase of equipment 
over £5,000 if the 
application is 
successful. Criteria are 
normally: 
Equipment is essential to 
delivery of the project and 
cannot be expected to be 
provided by institutions 
Equipment will be used in 
the partner country and will 
remain there on project 
completion.  
Consumables 
Specialist software 
licences essential to 
the collaboration. 
Access fees to 
facilities or library 
services 
Operational 
Costs 
Travel (economy 
class) and 
subsistence costs to 
the UK and partner 
countries. 
None 
See country 
specific 
guidance  
In line with British Council 
policies and the criteria 
detailed in Appendix 1. 
Visa fees, 
vaccinations and 
medical insurance for 
travel essential to 
collaboration, to the 
UK and partner 
countries. 
 
Costs of meetings, 
training events and 
seminars integral to 
the collaboration. 
This can include short-term 
room hire, hire of 
audio-visual equipment 
(projectors, etc.) and 
stationery supplies 
(flip-charts, etc.) 
Attendance at events which 
are not part of the project, 
included in the proposal, 
will only be funded 
exceptionally, and only if 
the collaborators will be 
presenting the project. 
Basic catering costs 
associated with 
events or meetings 
directly relating to the 
collaboration. 
 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
8 
 
Category 
Type 
Percentage 
limits 
Notes 
Communications 
costs 
Publication costs 
directly related to the 
collaboration 
None 
(see country 
specific 
guidance) 
This includes web page 
development by external 
providers, if appropriate 
We particularly encourage 
open access publishing 
Use of 
telecommunications 
such as video / audio 
/ web conferencing 
Other costs 
Bank charges for 
transfer of funds from 
the Lead Institution to 
other Partners 
 
Note that for-profit 
organisations are only 
eligible to receive funds for 
travel associated costs. 
 
6.2 Ineligible costs 
Institutional Links grants cannot cover: 
• 
Full economic costs (FECs) 
• 
Institutional overheads, administration fees and other indirect costs 
• 
Costs of staff based in commercial or for-profit organisations 
• 
Costs of permanent staff in Associated Partner organisations 
• 
Purchase or rental of standard office equipment (except specialist equipment essential to the 
research). This includes: 
• 
IT hardware – laptops, personal computers, tablets, smart phones, Mac workstations, 
computer parts and peripherals, etc. Any standard hardware which would routinely be 
used by researchers and academics will not be funded. 
• 
Office software. 
• 
Desks, chairs, filing cabinets, photocopiers, printers, fax machines. 
• 
Mobile phone rental or purchase. 
• 
Tuition Fees. 
• 
Bench Fees (for example PhD, Masters or Undergraduate study). 
• 
Costs related to writing up, promoting or disseminating previous research. 
• 
Attendance at conferences or other events unless this is to present outputs and outcomes of 
the project. 
• 
Patents costs. 
• 
Costs relating to the construction, procurement or rental of physical infrastructure, (e.g. office 
buildings, laboratory facilities). It is expected that any rooms and facilities essential for the 
routine operation of collaboration are provided as an in-kind contribution by the participating 
institutions. These can be detailed as an in-kind contribution in the budget breakdown. 
• 
Entertainment costs such as: 
• 
Gifts 
• 
Alcohol 
• 
Restaurant bills or hospitality costs for personnel not directly participating in the project. 
• 
Excessive restaurant costs 
• 
Excessive taxi fares 
• 
Other indirect costs not listed in the above table or detailed in Appendix 1. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
9 
 
Please contact UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org if you are in doubt which costs the 
Institutional Links Programme can and cannot cover. 
To ensure value for money, the budget requested in your proposal (including human resource 
costs) should cover only costs that are essential, appropriate and relevant to the collaboration. 
The proposal should maximise cost share through direct and indirect institutional contributions, 
in-kind funding, other funding sources, and private sector support. 
Please indicate in the appropriate budget spreadsheet (and summarise as indicated on the 
application form) funds applied for from other sources to cover the collaboration; please clarify 
the status of the funding applications, (i.e. successful; decision pending). Please indicate when 
you will know the outcome of any pending applications. 
For most countries, there is no minimum requirement for in-kind funding in the application, but 
these contributions will be looked upon favourably as a demonstration of long-lasting commitment 
to the programme. 
7. Project duration 
The maximum duration of the proposed collaboration is 24 months (less for some participating 
countries – see Appendix 1). Funding, if approved, begins from signature of the Grant Agreement 
by the British Council. Formal project start dates will be set in the grant agreement by the British 
Council. Expenses incurred by the institutions prior to the effective start date, including any costs 
incurred in the production of the proposal, cannot be charged to the grant. 
8. Ethics and research governance 
It is essential that all legal and professional codes of practice are followed in conducting work 
supported by this Programme. Applicants must ensure the proposed activity will be carried out to 
the highest standards of ethics and research integrity. 
In the online application form, applicants must clearly articulate how any potential ethical and 
health and safety issues have been considered and how they will be addressed, ensuring that all 
necessary ethical approval is in place before the project commences and all risks are minimised. 
Specifically, applications that involve research on animals, human participants, human tissue or 
patient/participant data must be accompanied by necessary permission certificates from the 
relevant local ethical review committees/authorities in the UK and the partner country, or an 
undertaking to obtain this permission in advance of the activity commencing. Failure to do so will 
result in applications being rendered ineligible and any funding already committed through this 
Programme being rescinded. 
Please refer to the Research Councils UK ‘Policy and Guidelines on Governance of Good 
Research Conduct’ (http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/Publications/researchers/grc/), the InterAcademy 
Partnership report ‘Doing Global Science: A Guide to Responsible Conduct in the Global 
Research Enterprise’ (http://www.interacademycouncil.net/24026/29429.aspx) or contact us at 
UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org for further guidance. 
9. Diversity 
The British Council is committed to equal opportunities and diversity in all our activities. This 
includes avoidance of bias due to gender, disability, racial or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, or 
religious belief. Applicants are therefore encouraged to include participation by researchers from 
under-represented groups in the teams implementing their proposed research. Applicants may 
apply for funding to cover extra costs for such participation, for example, for people with 
disabilities who may otherwise not be able to participate, or for childcare. Please describe any 
action you are taking to encourage diversity under “Collaboration” on your application form. 
Please make costs necessary to cover this inclusion clear in the ‘human resources’ section of the 
budget request within your application. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
10 
 
Please contact us at UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org for further information on funding. 
For 
more 
on 
the 
British 
Council’s 
approach, 
see 
our 
Equality 
Policy 
at: 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/equality_policy_1.doc. 
10. Submission process 
The deadline for submission of a completed application including all supporting documentation is 
16:00 UK time on 13 June 2017. Proposals submitted after the deadline will not be considered 
for funding. 
The deadline applies to all parts of your application, including upload of fully completed 
supporting documentation. Any applications which are not submitted in full by the 
deadline, with all required supporting documents, will be considered ineligible. Appeals 
against this decision will not be accepted. 
Applicants for all calls must submit a completed online application form https://britishcouncil-
cxobw.formstack.com/forms/application_form_il_2017_april 
which 
includes 
the 
upload 
of 
supporting information. The online form allows applicants to enter information and save it for a 
later date until final submission. There are strict character limits for each section which cannot be 
exceeded. 
In addition to filling in the online form, applicants are required to upload the following documents, 
as described, by the deadline. As above, late submission of supporting documents, or 
submission of documents which do not comply with these requirements, will render the 
application ineligible. The documents are: 
• 
Principal Applicants’ CVs (up to two sides of A4 each) 
• 
A detailed project budget (template available on the British Council call webpage) 
• 
Letters of support from the UK and partner country Principal Applicants’ institutions, on 
headed paper, signed by the Head of Institution, Head of Department or other person with 
appropriate delegated authority, expressing specific commitment to the proposed project, 
willingness to receive funding, a description of in-kind support to be given and describing 
why the experience and capability of the Principal Applicant is particularly suited to the 
project content. Please note that supporting letters must not be signed by the Principal 
Applicants. 
• 
If the proposal includes Associated Partners, a pdf file combining together signed letters 
on letter headed paper from each partner containing 300 words on the expertise they 
will bring to the project and the role they will take. Links to partner websites should be 
included if applicable. 
Any other documents uploaded with your application or sent late or separately will be not be 
considered, unless these are specified in Appendix 1). 
Applications must be in English. 
To assist you in developing your application and sharing content with your partners, you can 
access a Word version of the online form here: www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-
opportunities/newton-institutional-links-april-2017 
This is solely to allow you to develop your responses in a convenient format. The final version of 
your application must be submitted using the online form. 
If 
you 
experience 
problems 
with 
the 
online 
submission 
system, 
please 
contact  
UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org before the submission deadline. If you alert us to 
technical issues only after the deadline, we may not be able to take them into consideration when 
assessing the eligibility of your application. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
11 
 
Before the completed online application form can be submitted to the system, applicants will be 
asked to confirm on the form that they have: 
• 
obtained permission to submit the proposal on behalf of the UK institution(s) and of the 
partner country institution(s). This must be confirmed by attaching Letters of Support from 
the respective institutions signed by the Head of Institution, Head of Department or other 
person with appropriate delegated authority. 
• 
confirmed the Principal Applicants’ Institutions, (i.e. the Lead Institutions’) willingness to 
receive the funds and to sign a grant agreement with the British Council or the national 
partner, also confirmed in the Letters of Support. 
• 
complied with British Council policies on prevention of fraud, bribery, money laundering and 
addressed any other financial and reputational risk that may affect a transparent and fair 
grant award process. See: 
https://www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/transparency/policies/anti-fraud-and-corruption 
Once the online application is submitted, the system will generate a unique application ID 
number. Applicants should note this number and use it in all communications with the British 
Council. Applicants who have not received this ID number should contact the British Council at 
UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org. 
11. Applicant screening 
In order to comply with UK government legislation, the British Council may at any point during the 
application process, carry out searches of relevant third party screening databases to ensure that 
neither the applicant institutions nor any of the applicants’ employees, partners, directors, 
shareholders is listed: 
• 
as an individual or entity with whom national or supranational bodies have decreed 
organisations should not have financial dealings 
• 
as being wanted by Interpol or any national law enforcement body in connection with crime 
• 
as being subject to regulatory action by a national or international enforcement body 
• 
as being subject to export, trade or procurement controls or (in the case of an individual) as 
being disqualified from being a company director, and/or 
• 
as being a heightened risk individual or organisation, or (in the case of an individual) a 
politically exposed person. 
If the applicant or any other party is listed in a Screening Database for any of the reasons set out 
above, the British Council will assess the applicant as ineligible to apply for this grant call. 
The applicant must provide the British Council with all information reasonably requested by the 
British Council to complete the screening searches. 
Please read the text to this effect on the application form and tick the box to show that you 
understand this. 
12. Selection process 
Selection begins with an eligibility check by the British Council against the eligibility criteria given 
in these Guidelines, including Appendix 1 (Country specific guidance) and the Eligibility Checklist 
at Appendix 2. 
Eligible proposals then undergo independent external quality review on the basis of quality, fit to 
development needs and country priorities, capacity building potential and likely sustainability of 
the collaboration, as follows: 
• 
Assessment and scoring in the UK by at least two independent experts (see Appendix 3 for 
assessment form). 
• 
Thorough review in the partner country. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
12 
 
• 
Review by a UK Review Panel of experts, which determines a UK panel score, ranks 
applications and makes recommendations for funding. The Review Panel considers whether 
proposals are of high quality (being intellectually innovative, well-focused and 
methodologically sound), and whether the activity has the potential to have a real impact on 
economic development and social welfare in the partner country. 
• 
Review of development relevance against Official Development Assistance (ODA) definitions 
established by the OECD and guidance developed by the Newton Fund with advice from the 
UK Department for International Development, see http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-
is-oda/. All proposals must clearly articulate a plausible pathway to positive impact of the 
research on the lives of low-income populations and to a contribution to the economic 
development and social welfare of the partner country within a reasonable timeframe (3–15 
years). If the proposal is deemed not to meet this essential criterion, it will be rejected for UK 
Newton funding however high the quality of the proposed research. 
• 
Final decision making in the partner country based on UK and partner country review and 
ODA scores, in collaboration with UK Newton Fund partners, in-country stakeholders and 
national co-funding organisations. 
In the UK, eligible proposals are reviewed by one of five Review Panels: 
• 
Biological and Medical Sciences 
• 
Engineering and Physical Sciences 
• 
Environment, Agriculture and Food Sciences 
• 
Social Sciences 
• 
Arts and Humanities. 
Please indicate in the application which Review Panel should assess the proposal, and select up 
to three subject area(s) in priority order. We reserve the right to allocate your proposal to a 
different Review Panel. 
Proposals are quality assessed against the criteria at Appendix 3, resulting in a total score 
between 0 and 60. Those receiving a final score from the Panel meeting of less than 30 will be 
considered not fundable. However, achieving an average score equal to or above the threshold 
does not mean that the proposal will be funded. 
Country-specific priorities and challenge areas will be considered in the final decision, in addition 
to the general assessment criteria, see Appendix 1 for priorities by country. 
Only proposals which have clearly articulated relevance to economic development and 
social welfare (as defined in Section 4) will be considered for funding. 
Successful applicants will be notified approximately 4–5 months after the call deadline. 
13. Data protection 
How we use your information 
The British Council will use the information that you are providing for the purposes of processing 
your application, making any awards, monitoring and review of any award. 
We shall share any necessary data on your application with the UK Department for Business, 
Energy and Industrial Strategy, and with our funding partners in your country in order to assist 
with management of the application process; any decisions on grants will be made in 
collaboration with them. 
Organisation details, where collected, are used for monitoring and evaluation and statistical 
purposes. Gender information, where collected, is used solely in preparing statistical reports. 
The British Council collects country of origin for reporting and statistical purposes and to contact 
you within your own country. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
13 
 
Under UK Data Protection law you have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on 
you, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information. If you want more 
information about this please contact your local British Council office or the Data Protection Team 
inforgovernance@britishcouncil.org or see our website: http://www.britishcouncil.org/privacy-
cookies/data-protection. 
14. Contractual Requirements 
• 
The contracting authority is the British Council which includes any subsidiary companies and 
other organisations that control or are controlled by the British Council from time to time (see: 
www.britishcouncil.org/organisation/structure/status).  
• 
The successful applicants will be expected to undertake activities in the UK and in the Newton 
Fund countries listed in section 3 of these guidelines (Scope of the Programme). 
• 
The British Council is subject to the requirements of the UK Freedom of Information Act, (“FOIA”). 
Please indicate in your application whether FOIA also applies to your organisation, so that we 
can reflect this in the Grant Agreement should you be successful in your application. 
• 
The British Council’s contractual approach in respect of the grant is set out at 
www.britishcouncil.org/education/science/current-opportunities/newton-institutional-links-april-2017 
• 
(Terms and Conditions of the Grant Agreement) (“Grant Agreement”).  By submitting a 
response to this call for applications, you are agreeing to be bound by the terms of these 
guidelines and the Grant Agreement without further negotiation or amendment. 
• 
In the event that you have any concerns or queries in relation to the Grant Agreement, you 
should submit a clarification request to UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org in accordance 
with the provisions of this call for applications by the application deadline. The British Council 
reserves the right not to make any changes to the Grant Agreement. 
• 
The British Council is under no obligation to consider any clarifications / amendments to the 
Grant Agreement requested following the application deadline.  
 
15. Contact details 
All queries or comments about this call should be addressed to the Institutional Links 
email address: UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org. 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
14 
 
APPENDIX 1: COUNTRY-SPECIFIC GUIDANCE 
To ensure optimal fit to the local context and development needs, priority areas, specific 
innovation challenges and additional application requirements – such as maximum grant sizes 
and durations – have been set at a country level through discussion with national stakeholders. 
This appendix provides country-specific guidance which applicants should consider in 
conjunction with the main body text of this document before preparing their proposals. Proposals 
which do not take into account the country-specific guidance cannot be considered for 
funding. 
 
1. Brazil 
Brazil co-funder: 
Conselho Nacional das Fundações 
Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisao 
Duration of grants: 
18-24 months 
Size of grant: 
Up to £120,000 overall. The UK institution may request a maximum of 
£60,000 
Thematic priority areas: 
Social Innovation:                                                                                
- Rural Development                                                                                    
- Biodiversity 
Please refer to the “additional eligibility criteria” for the specific 
thematic priority area of each participating state.  
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. CONFAP will issue a contract with the Brazilian Lead Institution and manage the 
Brazilian side of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
Only researchers and institutions from the following states are eligible to apply. Each state has 
identified thematic priority areas for this call and will welcome applications from the following 
areas: 
1. Distrito Federal 
- 
Biodiversity 
- 
Climate change and water in Cerrado Biome Rural Development 
- 
Family Farming and sustainability 
2. Maranhão 
- 
Rural Development: Family farming and Solidarity-based Entreprises 
Applications will be from NGOs focused on family farming, especially those with an agroecological 
approach and State Forum on Solidarity Economy 
3. Minas Gerais 
- 
Agronomy 
- 
Food Science and Technology 
- 
Agricultural Engineering; Sanitary Engineering; Forestry Engineering; Fishing Engineering 
4. Mato Grosso do Sul 
- 
Biodiversity: characterisation, conservation and sustainable use of Cerrado and Panatanl 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
15 
 
Biomes. 
- 
Studies in the areas of climate, air, hydrology, terrain, soils and geology. 
5. Pará 
- 
Natural products from plant species 
- 
Biotechnology 
- 
Fauna and Microorganisms 
6. Sergipe 
- 
Rural development: aquaculture, tropical fruit farming, biofertilizers 
- 
Food security, nutrition, basic sanitation. 
- 
Biodiversity: forest preservation and environmental education 
7. Goiás 
- 
Rural development 
- 
Biodiversity 
8. Paraná 
- 
Alternative energies: sustainability for small farmers, climate control etc. 
9. Alagoas  
- 
Rural development 
- 
Biodiversity 
10. São Paulo 
- 
Rural development 
- 
Biodiversity 
11. Santa Catarina 
- 
Food security 
- 
Technologies for the sustainable development of family farming and artisanl fisheries 
 
 
 
The CNA system is comprised by 3 entities: The Confederation for Agriculture - Confederação da 
Agricultura e Pecuária o todo Brasil (CNA), representing rural Brazilian producers at small medium and 
large scale; The national service for rural learning - Serviço Nacional de Aprendizagem Rural 
(SENAR), responsible for providing technical assistance, professional technical training and the 
promotion of social initiatives for men and women in the countryside and; the CNA INSTITUTE – 
(Instituto CNA), which develops social studies and research aimed   at the agricultural sector.  The 
SENAR is a non for profit social autonomous service, linked to the CNA. It serves over 3 million 
Brazilian from the rural sector, per year at no cost, offering managerial and technical assistance, as 
well as professional and technical training through online and in-person courses.  Present in all of 
Brazilian states with 27 regional administrations, SENAR is referred to as a school transferring 
research and technology to the countryside, with a demand-led approach.  
 
 
Submission process: 
Applicants should submit one application via the UK system and also a separate application in-country. 
For additional information, please visit  the following link: 
https://www.britishcouncil.org.br/newton-fund/chamadas/institutional-links-desenvolvimento-rural-
biodiversidade-2017 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
16 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Egypt: Newton-Mosharafa 
Egypt co-funder: 
Science and Technology Development Fund (STDF) 
Duration of grants: 
24 months 
Size of grant: 
Up to £300,000 GBP 
Thematic priority areas: 
1. Sustainable Food Production 
The partners will look to prioritise projects related to the investigation of:  
• Climatic and extra climatic factors affecting livestock, aqua fisheries and 
sustainable crop production. 
• Innovative solutions for combatting emerging infectious livestock diseases. 
• Waste management and biofuel production. 
• Advanced trends to improve livestock productivity 
 
2. Sustainable water management  
The partners will look to prioritise projects related to the investigation of:  
• Sanitation technology 
• Advances in desalination technology 
 
3. Affordable & Inclusive Healthcare 
The partners will look to prioritise projects related to the investigation of:  
• Cancer 
• Translational medicine 
• Chronic diseases 
• Geriatric medicine 
 
4. Renewable Energy  
The partners will look to prioritise projects related to the investigation of:  
• New trends in renewable energy 
• Advances in energy storage systems 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. STDF will issue a contract with the Egyptian Lead Institution and manage the 
Egyptian side of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
• 
In accordance with STDF guidelines Principal Investigators cannot have more than two 
projects funded by STDF running at the same time.  
 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
17 
 
• 
There is a strong emphasis in Egypt on encouraging more collaboration between research and 
industry. When deciding which applications to fund, preference will be given to proposals which 
involve participation from private sector enterprises. 
• 
For the Egyptian budget, allowances will be as follows: 1) Max 25% on salary/staff costs 2) 
Max 10% on travel costs 3) Max 20% on indirect costs/overheads 4) The remaining 45% can 
go on other costs (research costs, equipment, communication, publication, materials, field work 
expenses) 
Other considerations: 
The Egyptian budget should be calculated in Egyptian pounds. To work out the total amount of the 
grant, applicants should use the exchange rate published by the National Bank of Egypt for the week 
beginning 17th April. To be eligible for funding the project requires the relevant clearances from 
the Egyptian authorities. The Egyptian PI should apply for this when they initially submit their 
application - the STDF will not submit this paperwork on their behalf. 
 
Applications that are successful are chosen by the British Council but the decision is ratified by the 
Egyptian government. 
Submission process: 
One application via the UK system 
 
 
 
3. Indonesia 
Indonesia co-funder: 
Ministry of Research, Technology and Higher Education 
(MRTHE) 
 
Duration of grants: 
12 to 24 months 
Size of grant: 
Up to £120,000 GBP, which consists of Newton Fund up to £100,000 
GBP and KLN or INSINAS up to GBP 20,000 (up to 2 years) 
Thematic priority areas: 
Proposals must be relevant to at least one of the priority sectors listed 
on the Indonesia's National Master Plan for Research 2015-2045, as 
follow:  
1. Food Security 
2. Energy and Renewable Energy 
3. Health and Medicine 
4. Transportation Technology and Management 
5. Information and Communication Technology 
6. Advance Material 
7. Maritime 
8. Disaster Mitigation and Management 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. MRTHE will issue a contract with the Indonesian Lead Institution and manage the 
Indonesian side of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
18 
 
1. Criteria for the UK principal applicant is same with general guidelines 
 
2. Criteria for the Indonesia principal applicant must comply with KLN/INSINAS criteria, which can be 
found here : http://simlitabmas.dikti.go.id/# 
 
Project output must include international publication 
Other considerations: 
For Indonesian applicants please refer to The Regulation of the Finance Ministry No.106/PMK.02/2016 
to see the eligible budget allocation for each project based on subject/sector 
http://risbang.ristekdikti.go.id/regulasi/PMK-106-PMK.02-2016.pdf 
  
For more information and specific Indonesia criteria query, please contact 
newtonfund.indonesia@britishcouncil.or.id 
 
Submission process: 
Applicants should apply to both the British Council Newton Fund UK application system and either the 
KLN & INSINAS's open call process. The following types of applicant should apply for one of MRTHE's 
programme: 
 
1.State Universities and Private Universities, should apply to the Newton Fund Institutional Links in 
the UK and also KLN Programme (Kerjasama Luar Negeri)  
 
2. Research institutions should apply to the Newton Fund Institutional Links in the UK and also 
INSINAS Programme (Insentif Riset Sistem Inovasi Nasional)  
 
*Please open this website for details of criteria http://simlitabmas.dikti.go.id/# 
 
*We cannot take the application further if the application does not comply to KLN or INSINAS's 
mechanism 
 
4. Kenya 
Kenya co-funder: 
National Research Fund (NRF)  
Duration of grants: 
12 months 
Size of grant: 
£100,000 
Thematic priority areas: 
Priority areas of focus in Kenya 
The Newton Utafiti Fund programme encourages transformative and 
collaborative research purposefully developed to add value and create 
synergy across existing sectors and other initiatives of government and 
partners to national priorities as well as contribute to meet the Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs). 
The priority areas of focus for Kenya during this second call have been 
identified as: 
 
1) 
Food Security 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
19 
 
Population growth and increasing consumption trends are posing a major 
burden to Kenya’s limited resources.  Increasing population migrations from 
rural to urban areas and occasional droughts have continued to impact 
agricultural productivity. About 10 million people in Kenya suffer from chronic 
food insecurity and poor nutrition, and between two and four million people 
require food assistance at any given time. Nearly 30% of Kenya’s children 
can be classified as undernourished, and micronutrient deficiencies are 
widespread. 
 
The Kenyan Government is committed to building self-reliance to reduce 
chronic food insecurity, as well as measures to assist those in needs with a 
view of longer-term development efforts to mitigate the potential impact of 
future emergencies. The Vision 2030, Second Medium Term Plan (2013-
2017) and the Food and Nutrition Security Policy (FNSP) provides a 
framework for multiple dimensions to food security and nutrition 
improvement. It recognizes the need for multi-public and private sectors 
involvement, and that hunger eradication and nutrition improvement to be a 
shared responsibility of all Kenyans. This is also with the is aspirations of 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) particularly Goal Number two 
targeting to end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 
promote sustainable agriculture.  
 
2) 
Sustainable and Renewable Energy 
Access to sustainable energy is a necessary precondition for achieving 
national development goals such as poverty eradication, access to clean 
water, improved public health and education, women's empowerment and 
increase food production. The country is straining to achieve the set target for 
the Sustainable Energy for all by 2030.  
Over 80% of Kenyans rely on the traditional use of biomass as the primary 
source of energy for cooking and heating. The Kenyan government is putting 
in place measures to regulate the fuel wood sector to reverse the trend. 
Researchers are invited under this Newton Utafiti Fund programme to come 
up with multidisciplinary research concepts to address issues of access to 
sustainable and renewable energy with a special emphasis to rural 
communities.  
 
3) 
Health 
The government of Kenya recognizes that achieving the development goals 
outlined in Kenya Vision 2030 will require increasing productivity. The health 
sector is expected to play a critical supportive role in maintaining a healthy 
workforce which is necessary for the increased labour production that Kenya 
requires in order to match its global competitors.  Therefore, health is one of 
the key components in delivering the social pillar for the Kenya Vision 2030. 
The country has developed a number of strategies to address the health 
challenges. The Constitution of Kenya (2010) introduced a transformational 
change in governance and public administration, providing for the Right to 
Health for every Kenyan, and a devolved system of governance. The Kenya 
Health Policy (2014-2030) has defined a comprehensive set of policy 
objectives and orientations to be attained in order to accelerate 
improvements in the health of Kenyans.  
In this call, researchers in the health sector are invited to contribute to 
facilitating the aspirations of Kenya’s development blueprint Vision 2030, 
Health Policy, Attainment of SDG No. 3 on ensuring healthy lives and 
promote wellbeing for all and other relevant sector policy documents.  
 
4) 
Environment and Climate Change 
Kenya recognizes the value of her environmental resources and that the 
degradation of the environment can adversely affect productivity and 
increase levels of poverty in the country.  The conservation and sustainable 
use of land, water, forests, biological and mineral resources are key to the 
country’s development objectives.  The rate of exploitation of the country’s 
land and biological resources is considered unsustainable. Natural 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
20 
 
ecosystems, important for a number of natural services and products are 
being converted to other uses or face the threat of degradation due to 
pollution.  
It is worth noting that enhanced emission of greenhouse gases into the 
atmosphere has led to global warming and climatic change, and the changes 
to the earth surface through various human activities, including waste 
disposal, has contributed to global environmental change, the local 
magnitude and potential impact of which is yet to be established. To the 
Government of Kenya, these changes pose both potential risks and 
opportunities for food production, human health and energy availability, 
among many others. Multi-sector and multidisciplinary research proposals 
are invited to contribute in reverse these challenges and alleviate climate 
change adversities.   
 
5) 
Manufacturing for SMEs 
Over the past few years the level of Government interests in 
entrepreneurship and small business development as potential solutions to 
flagging economic growth and rising unemployment has increased. Kenya’s 
manufacturing sector is identified as among the key productive sectors 
identified for economic growth and development because of its immense 
potential for wealth, employment creation and poverty alleviation. Kenya 
Vision 2030, Second Medium Term underscores the importance of this sector 
to the economy. 
The SMEs are well recognized for their operation cutting across almost all 
sectors of the economy and sustain majority of households in Kenya.  The 
sector employs significant number of employees and is currently receiving a 
lot of Government attention as it’s seen as the solution to the crippling 
unemployment especially for the youth. Transformative research targeting 
manufacturing for SMEs is highly welcome. 
 
6) 
Governance and Conflict resolution related to development 
Kenya recognizes that Governance, peace and security of humankind is an 
international concern. It requires the development of partnerships between 
public agencies, local communities, civil society and various related actors. 
The National Policy on Peace building and Conflict Management provides 
platform to address the key challenges facing Kenya in her commitment to 
supporting sustainable peace and development.  
In this programme, researchers are being invited to develop multi-sector 
approaches to enhance institutional framework for conflict management and 
Peace building that fosters strong partnerships between the Government, the 
market, the civil society, Development partners and grass root communities 
for sustainable development. 
7) 
Cross-Cutting Issues 
There are a number of cross-cutting issues that are important for the country. 
Researchers are expected to address the issues as they develop their 
proposals under the above listed priority areas of focus. The issues are: 
 
• 
Social-Science Interface 
• 
Technical skills 
• 
Big data 
• 
Basic sciences 
• 
Education  
• 
Innovation & Entrepreneurship skills  
• 
Gender Mainstreaming 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. NRF will issue a contract with the Kenyan Lead Institution and manage the 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
21 
 
Kenyan side of the grant. 
Submission process: 
One application to the UK system. 
 
 
 
5. Malaysia 
Malaysia co-funder: 
Malaysian Industry-Government Group for High 
Technology (MIGHT) 
Duration of grants: 
12 – 24 months 
Size of grant: 
£50,000 GBP – £150,000 GBP 
Thematic priority areas: 
The overarching theme for this call is Climate Change & 
Sustainability. In particular, applications will be welcome from these 
focus areas: 
1. Health & life sciences 
2. Improving environmental resilience and energy security 
3. Future Cities 
4. Agritech 
5. Digital, Innovation & Creativity 
Contractual arrangements: 
British council will disburse 50% of the grant to all successful applicants and MIGHT will transfer the 
remaining 50% of grant in cash to British Council (30% upon receipt of interim report and 20% upon 
receipt of final report submitted by UK PI). 
Other considerations: 
35% of the total grant can be spent on other-research related costs. 
Submission process: 
One application to the UK system 
 
 
 
6. Mexico 
Mexico co-funder: 
Fondo de Sustentabilidad Energética 
(SENER-CONACyT) 
Duration of grants: 
12 months 
Size of grant: 
£80,000 GBP for Technological Developments/£70,000 GBPs for  
Solutions  for the Public Policy  (i.e. policy manuals) 
Thematic priority areas: 
Applications are welcome from the following key thematic priority 
areas: 
 
1. Electrical Energy Storage  
Sub-theme I: Planning and management of energy storage  
Research to improve the planning and management of electrical energy 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
22 
 
storage; identify the applications of energy storage in Mexico; integrate 
systems to optimize energy storage and reduce costs; generate public 
policies to implement strategies in storage of electric energy in order to 
reduce energy poverty and guarantee the supply of energy to the population; 
facilitate government interventions targeting low-income groups and 
decentralise energy infrastructure                                                                       
Sub-theme II: Technological developments to improve energy storage 
Research to design new devices, applications and processes that improve 
energy storage at lower costs and that may have a social, environmental and 
economic impact for the Mexican population; evaluate and compare existing 
energy storage technologies and delivery processes versus their cost, 
seeking a direct impact on the living conditions of the Mexican population. 
2. Energy Efficiency and Epidemiology 
Sub-theme I: Planning and management of energy efficiency 
Research to improve the planning and management of energy efficiency; 
generate public policies to implement strategies that help reduce carbon 
emissions, reduce energy poverty, improve the monitoring and evaluation of 
energy systems and ensure an efficient supply to the population; facilitate 
government interventions targeting lower income groups in less efficient 
households and decentralize energy infrastructure; build standards for 
energy supply of social housing;  applications of epidemiology for demand 
analysis and improvements in energy efficiency                                                               
Sub-theme II: Energy efficiency in construction 
Research to explore possible future scenarios of energy efficiency in the 
construction industry; examine the interventions needed to overcome barriers 
to energy efficiency in construction; analyse the current political landscape, 
regulations and performance of energy efficiency in the construction industry 
for the benefit of the Mexican population;  applications of epidemiology for 
demand analysis and improvements in energy efficiency 
 
Sub-theme III: Technological developments to improve energy 
efficiency 
Research to design new energy efficiency devices and processes that may 
have a social, environmental and economic impact on the Mexican 
population; evaluate and contrast the efficiency of existing technologies and 
processes seeking to improve those that have a direct impact on the living 
conditions of the Mexican population 
 
3. Materials for Clean Energies 
Sub-theme I: Materials Development 
Research to accelerate the exploration, discovery and use of new low-cost, 
high-performance clean energy materials to accelerate the transition to low-
carbon economies by integrating the potential social, environmental and 
economic impact of such developments (waste reduction, decentralised 
energy infrastructures, materials that can be used in remote and 
marginalised areas, improved health, etc.) 
Sub-theme II: Process integration 
Research to automate and improve the processes necessary to integrate 
these materials into new technologies at every step of the innovation chain of 
new materials, while integrating the social and economic benefits for the 
Mexican population through the use of local resources. 
 
4. Offshore clean energy generation technologies 
Sub-theme I: Planning and management of offshore clean energy 
generation technologies 
Research to inform public policy to decentralise energy systems and make 
them accessible to the population without electrical energy connectivity 
(grids);  identification of marine energy resources and devices compatible 
with the geographical conditions of Mexico and the energy needs of the 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
23 
 
population without electrical network connectivity; design of early 
technologies or creation of correspondence of existing technologies to solve 
the energy needs of the population without electrical network connectivity; 
marine spatial planning for the optimized deployment and assignment of 
offshore technologies to meet the energy needs of the population without 
electrical network connectivity  
Sub-theme II: Integration of offshore clean energy generation systems 
Research to inform public policies and support the management, control and 
valuation of marine energy surpluses to make an economically efficient use 
of overcapacity in marine energy and inform public policies for the socio-
economic development of ports and coastal communities of Mexico; design 
of monitoring, control and evaluation systems for offshore technologies to 
improve their efficiency and use 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage 50% 
of the grant. SENER-CONACyT will issue a contract with the Mexican Lead Institution and manage 
50% of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
In the case of Mexico, the principal investigator is expected to be a member or candidate to be part of the National 
System of Investigators. The researcher must be based in an institution of higher education or research centers of 
Mexican origin or based in Mexico with the capacity to carry out high quality research 
- The institution of the Mexican principal investigator must be enrolled in the National Register of Scientific and 
Technological Institutions and Companies (RENIECYT) in order to receive funds. 
In addition the proposal must include the formation of a multidisciplinary and inter-institutional team with at least 
the following members: 
• A project leader represented by a member researcher or SNI candidate based on a Mexican institution as well as 
a deputy researcher 
• A project co-leader represented by a researcher based in a British institution as well as a deputy researcher. 
• A project coordinator belonging to the proposing institution or some other non-profit organization that supports 
with the logistics and organization of the work sessions. It is recommended that there be one coordinator per 
institution for greater efficiency and preferably include staff with knowledge and experience that can contribute to 
project deliverables. In the case of technological developments, the support of an Office of Technological Transfer 
or some expert in technology management, technological maps, management of intellectual property is suggested. 
• An administrative leader on the part of each institution that takes care of the formalisation of the contracts and 
follows up the payments and financial reports 
• A minimum of 5 members (at least 2 from each country) and a maximum of 20 participants (10 from Mexico and 
10 from the UK) in each working group. 
• Working groups may include non-governmental organizations, civil associations and private companies that are 
relevant and contribute to the research, provided that they will not receive funding but will be able to access the 
working sessions. 
• Proposals should clearly specify the names, profiles and role to be developed in the project. 
Other considerations: 
Modalities 
• Proposals should include activities for the development of solutions, services or technologies in the areas of 
Energy Efficiency, Clean Energy Materials, Electrical Energy Storage and Offshore Clean Energy Generation 
Technologies. There are two modalities for funding; we need that the applicants state clearly which modality will be 
followed and which activities will be pursuit during the project.  
Modality I: Research for the elaboration of opinions, manuals, recommendations or publications that help 
public policy for the efficient management of energy in the country 
Expected Deliverables at the end of the project: 
1. A technical report is expected with: 
• Developed research activities and conclusions 
• Project feasibility analysis 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
24 
 
• Benchmark analysis against existing projects of the same nature. 
• Mapping of financing alternatives to scale the project 
2. A publication: Paper or article published at the end of the project in an academic or science journal (mandatory). 
Please carefully consider  to avoid the publication of information that may be detrimental to the intellectual property 
of the project. 
3. A manual with opinions and recommendations that help public policy for the efficient management of energy in 
the country. 
Modality II; Technological developments (between Levels 2 and 3 of Technological Maturity (regarding the 
Technology Readiness Level scale of NASA-TRL 2 and 3). 
 
1. A technical report is expected with: 
• Developed research activities and conclusions 
• Project feasibility analysis 
• Benchmark analysis against existing projects of the same nature. 
• Mapping of financing alternatives to scale the project 
• Technological Roadmap 
• Market validation analysis 
2. 
A publication: Paper or article published at the end of the project in an academic or science journal 
(mandatory). Please carefully consider to avoid the publication of information that may be detrimental to the 
intellectual property of the project. 
 
Additional budget constraints 
• The maximum proportion of the total value of the grant to cover research costs is 40% for technological 
developments and 30% for other projects. 
• Cost of consultants or trainers that are relevant / crucial for the deliverables of the project. Up to 35% of Human 
Resources cost. The applicants will have to state clearly what would the consultancy/training will be for. 
• Bank charges for transfer of funds from the Lead Institution to other Partners will not be met by the Mexican 
partner and must be included  
 
Other considerations 
• For technological developments, these activities are expected to be at least in Technological Maturity Level 2 
(NASA TRL 2) and maximum in Level 3 (NASA TRL3). In the case of technological developments we need that the 
applicants state and justify clearly the level of Technology Readiness their research is sitting in. For the benefit of 
applicants we have created this check list so they can assess their project's technological maturity  level 
(https://www.britishcouncil.org.mx/sites/default/files/trl_diagnosis_questionnaire_final.xlsx) 
 
• For research for the public policy/research landscape, it is expected that such activities will lead to the 
elaboration of opinions, manuals, recommendations or publications that help public policy for the efficient 
management of energy in the country or that will contribute significantly to establish a pathway for further research 
in the country (i.e. in marine energy, epidemiology, etc.) 
• All projects must demonstrate that within 3 to 15 years they can lead to a high social, environmental and 
economic impact for the Mexican population, especially in marginalized or high poverty areas 
 
Submission process: 
Applicants should submit one application via the UK system and also a separate application in-country.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
25 
 
 
7. Philippines 
Philippines co-funder: 
Commission on Higher Education  
Duration of grants: 
24 months 
Size of grant: 
Up to £120,000 for UK partner and Php 10 million for Philippine 
partner 
Thematic priority areas: 
• Health and life sciences: Reducing the dual burden of infectious and 
lifestyle diseases on the fragile health system of the region including 
addressing the increasing threat of anti-microbial resistance and 
neglected tropical diseases; research on diagnostics, e-health 
systems, and biomedical device development. 
• Improving environmental resilience: Improving understanding and 
mitigating the human and economic impacts of natural hazards. 
• Improving energy security: Reducing carbon emissions by 
improving energy efficiency and provision of renewable energy. 
• Future cities: Addressing the challenges and maximising the 
opportunities posed by the rapid urbanisation through support to the 
development of physical and virtual infrastructure and better 
understanding human impacts.   
• Agritech: Increasing agricultural productivity and addressing food 
security issues as production is likely to be hindered by the impacts of 
climate change. 
• Digital, innovation and creativity: The use of web technology, data 
analytics, big data, and creative industries as drivers of disruptive 
innovations that can deliver benefits to social and economic 
development. Similarly, facilitating development of policies and 
approaches to enable creation of effective innovation systems and 
long term planning will be essential to encourage sustainable 
development. 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. The Commission on Higher Education will issue a contract with the Philippine 
Lead Institution and manage the Philippine side of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria: 
Applying institutions from the Philippines should be eligible for the CHED Institutional Development and 
Innovation Grants in order to qualify. For more information, please read http://www.ched.gov.ph/wp-
content/uploads/2016/06/CMO33_s2016.pdf. 
 
Applicants are required to submit a Work and Financial Plan from the Philippine partner for the Php10 
m award from CHED. Download the form from https://www.britishcouncil.ph/programmes/newton-
fund/institutional-links. 
Other considerations: 
More guidelines on CHED funding restrictions on the Php10 m grant can be found here: 
http://www.ched.gov.ph/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/CMO33_s2016.pdf. 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
26 
 
Submission process: 
One application via UK system; accompanied by the additional submission of a Work and Financial 
Plan from the Philippine partner pertaining to the use of the Php10 m from CHED. 
 
 
 
8. Thailand 
Thailand co-funder: 
Thailand Research Fund (TRF)  
 
Duration of grants: 
24 months 
Size of grant: 
£50,000 - £100,000 
Thematic priority areas: 
Applicants are welcome to apply for funding in one of the following 
thematic priority areas: 
1. Education research and innovation for development 
2. Economic growth (eg. Equitable growth, financial sector 
development, private sector development) 
3. Demographic change, migration and ageing society 
4. Rural and urban development 
5. Infrastructure (including civil engineering, information and 
communication technologies, big data for social economic 
development) 
6. Governance, society and conflict (eg. Transparency, accountibility, 
effective institutions, land and natural resource rights, poverty 
alleviation, social development, structural inequalities, civil society) 
7. Innovative and Sustainable competitiveness in Agriculture 
Contractual arrangements: 
British Council Newton Fund will issue a grant agreement to the UK Lead Institution and manage the 
UK side of the grant. TRF will issue a contract with the Thai Lead Institution and manage the Thai side 
of the grant. 
Additional eligibility criteria:  
• 
Thai lead applicant must not hold senior / executive position (Dean level or above). 
• 
In requesting for the budget, the Thai applicant must request no more than 50% of the total 
cost of the grant and the UK applicant must request no more than 50% of   the total cost of the 
grant. 
• 
Human Resources cost for Thai applicant must not exceed 15% of total grant. 
Other considerations: 
Thai applicants must follow additional guidelines as outlined by TRF. 
In addition to UK applicants report submission via Researchfish, Thai applicants must also submit 
narrative and financial report to TRF. 
Submission process: 
One application via the UK system. 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
27 
 
APPENDIX 2: ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA CHECKLIST 
                         
7 https://www.innovateuk.org/-/catapult-centres 
Eligibility criteria checklist 
The application 
The application has been submitted by the applicants by the published deadline. 
 
The application has been submitted by a principal applicant in the UK and a principal 
applicant based in one of the partner countries listed in Appendix 1. 
 
Principal applicants are based at: 
• 
a not-for-profit higher education institution with the capacity to undertake high-quality 
research 
• 
a research institution with the capacity to undertake high-quality research 
• 
a Catapult Centre7 (in the case of the UK Principal Applicant) 
• 
an alternative institution as detailed in Appendix 1 
For the UK, if the lead institution is not an HEI, they are listed here 
(https://www.britishcouncil.org/sites/default/files/institutional_links_-
_eligible_uk_research_organisations_-_version_1april_2015.pdf). Please contact  
UK-InstitutionalLinks@britishcouncil.org if in doubt 
 
The applicants have included two (2) supporting letters, one from each of the two Lead 
Institutions, on headed paper, signed by the Head of the Institution, Head of Department 
or other person with appropriate delegated authority, giving specific commitment to the 
project as described in Section 10 of these Guidelines. Supporting letters are not signed 
by the Principal Applicants. 
 
Applicants have submitted a detailed budget request using the appropriate budget 
spreadsheet provided. 
 
If there are associated partners, a letter from each partner has been unloaded as 
required within a single pdf. 
 
Each section of the application form has been completed in full and complies with 
instructions given. 
 
The application form and supporting documents have been completed in English. 
 
The principal applicants have submitted only one (1) application under this Institutional 
Links call. 
 
If either principal applicant has previously received a Newton Fund Institutional Links 
grant then the proposed activity builds significantly upon the existing project. 
 
The budget 
The total budget is within 10% of the limits given in this guidance, including Appendix 1 
for the applicable partner country. If the budget is over 10% above the maximum, the 
application is ineligible. If the budget is within 10% of the limits given, the budget is cut to 
the maximum allowed if chosen for funding. 
 
The budget requested under “other research related costs” is 30% or less of the total 
budget (unless specified otherwise in Appendix 1). 
 
The budget requested for permanent staff costs is 30% or less of the total budget 
requested for human resources costs.  
 
If the partner country Lead Institution is affiliated in any way with a higher education or 
research institution in another country, (e.g. UK, USA), the proposal includes other 
eligible higher education or research institutions in the partner country. 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
28 
 
APPENDIX 3: ASSESSMENT CRITERIA AND SCORING SYSTEM 
Assessment of the quality and development relevance of the proposals will be performed by 
expert reviewers, and the final funding decisions will be made in discussion with British Council 
country office and in-country partners. Only proposals that have clearly articulated relevance to 
economic development and social welfare of the partner country will be considered for funding. In 
addition, only proposals with an average score of 30 points or more for Sections 2 to 4 are 
considered fundable.  
Section 1: Relevance to economic development and social welfare 
Score 
Range 
 
YES/NO 
The proposal clearly articulates a plausible pathway for the research to 
lead to positive impact on the lives of people on low income and 
contribute to the economic development and social welfare of the 
partner country and within a reasonable timeframe (3–15 years). 
Please see section 4 of the guidelines for further details. 
 
 
Section 2: Research/innovation quality and background 
Score 
Range 
 
0–20 
• 
The academic importance and timeliness of the research/innovation 
topic is clearly demonstrated. 
• 
The Principal Applicants have sufficient relevant experience to 
undertake the proposed research collaboration and achieve the 
stated objectives. 
• 
The value added – to institutions and/or the wider research and 
innovation community – by the collaboration between the partnering 
institutions is clearly described. 
• 
The collaborating institutions are of appropriate academic standing. 
• 
The benefits and relevance of the research to the UK and partner 
country institution is clearly described. 
20 points: Meets all 
criteria to an 
exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a very high 
level 
11 to 15 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a high level 
6 to 10 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to an adequate 
level 
1 to 5 points: Meets 
some of the criteria to 
an adequate level 
0 points: Fails to meet 
any of the criteria to an 
adequate level. 
 
 NEWTON FUND INSTITUTIONAL LINKS – GUIDELINES FOR APPLICANTS APRIL 2017 VERSION 5 
29 
 
Section 3: Proposal 
Score 
Range 
 
0–20 
• 
The description of the proposed collaboration includes clear, 
feasible and realistic objectives as well as potential for long term 
impact. 
• 
Applicants clearly articulate specific outputs anticipated from the 
collaboration and objectives likely to be achieved 
• 
The proposal explains the benefits to both the UK and partner 
country researchers/innovation practitioners, institutions and 
end-users of the research or the products and services that will 
result from the project activity, in particular taking into account who 
might benefit and how they might benefit. 
• 
There is strong evidence of support from the applicants’ institutions 
and Associated Partners (where applicable). 
• 
The proposed collaboration supports new links or significantly 
extends and develops existing links. 
• 
If the applicants’ institutions are collaborating already, there is there 
clear evidence that the grant would add significant value to the 
collaboration. 
• 
The proposal includes a clear and feasible description of the 
arrangements for project managing the collaboration and 
communication between partners. 
• 
The proposal represents value for money; all costs are fully 
justified. 
20 points: Meets all 
criteria to an 
exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a very high 
level 
11 to 15 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a high level 
6 to 10 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to an adequate 
level 
1 to 5 points: Meets 
some of the criteria to 
an adequate level 
0 points: Fails to meet 
any of the criteria to an 
adequate level. 
 
Section 4: Sustainability and capacity building 
Score 
Range 
 
0–20 
• 
The potential in terms of professional development and capacity 
building for researchers, innovation practitioners and other 
individuals participating in the collaboration is clearly described. 
• 
The collaboration supports the institutional capacity to translate 
research into economic or societal benefit, for example through 
establishing new relationships with non-academic partners, or 
setting up new processes for technology transfer. 
• 
The proposal includes a clear and feasible description of how the 
participating institutions/organisations intend to sustain their 
collaboration over the longer-term. 
• 
The participating institutions demonstrate a commitment to the 
collaboration through provision of in-kind funding (note that 
matched funding is an essential requirement for proposals from a 
subset of countries). 
20 points: Meets all 
criteria to an 
exceptional level 
16 to 19 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a very high 
level 
11 to 15 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to a high level 
6 to 10 points: Meets 
the majority of the 
criteria to an adequate 
level 
1 to 5 points: Meets 
some of the criteria to 
an adequate level 
0 points: Fails to meet 
any of the criteria to an 
adequate level. 
Total score for quality assessment 
(Section 2 + Section 3 + Section 4) 
Score 
Range 
 
0–60 
 
   
                                                                                                                                    
 
CHAMADA CONFAP-BRITISH COUNCIL:  
INSTITUTIONAL LINKS 
ANÚNCIO DE RESULTADO 
 
Este é o anúncio do resultado da chamada CONFAP-British Council: Institutional Links 
lançada pelo CONFAP em parceira com o British Council em 03/04/2017. Os projetos 
abaixo serão financiados pelas FAPs mencionadas. Outros projetos, não relacionados, 
não foram recomendados ou excederam o orçamento para essa chamada. Qualquer 
questão relevante ao resultado deve ser direcionada a FAP mencionada.  
 
 
Nº 
Nome do 
Coordenador 
no Brasil 
Instituição 
no Brasil 
Nome do 
Coordenador 
no Reino 
Unido 
Instituição no 
Reino Unido 
Título da 
Proposta 
FAP 
1 
Pedro 
Henrique 
Weirich 
Neto 
UEPG 
Lindsay 
Stringer 
Universidade 
de Leeds 
Building 
economic 
development 
and social 
welfare of 
small farming 
communities 
in Paraná, 
Brazil, through 
climate 
compatible 
development: 
the role of 
bioenergy 
crops 
Fundação 
Araucária 
2 
Richard J. 
Ladle 
UFAL 
Paul Jepson 
Universidade 
de Oxford 
Developing 
Investment 
Blueprints for 
Sustainable 
Use Protected 
Areas in 
Alagoas State, 
Brazil 
FAPEAL 
3 
Warde 
Antonieta da 
Fonseca-
Zang 
IFG 
Luiza C. 
Campos 
University 
College 
London  
A water-
waste-energy-
food model 
for rural 
communities 
FAPEG 
   
                                                                                                                                    
and organic 
farming 
sustainability 
in Brazil 
4 
Maico Roris 
Severino 
UFG 
Athanasios 
Rentizelas 
Universidade 
de 
Strathclyde 
Supporting 
vulnerable 
small local 
farmers in 
Brazil 
distribute 
their products 
and improve 
their standard 
of living 
FAPEG 
5 
Luiz Gustavo 
M. Silva 
UFSJ 
Paul Kemp 
Universidade 
de 
Southampton 
Enhancing 
fisheries 
resilience and 
hydropower 
development: 
the road to 
sustainable 
energy-water-
food NEXUS in 
Brazil 
FAPEMIG 
6 
Rossana 
Pacheco da 
Costa 
Proença 
UFSC 
Heather 
Hartwell 
Universidade 
de 
Bournemouth 
Veg+: 
Increasing 
vegetable 
consumption 
for young 
adults through 
Short Food 
Supply Chains 
FAPESC 
7 
Jaoquim 
Manoel 
Monteiro 
Valverde 
IFC 
Ramakrishnan 
Ramanathan 
Universidade 
de 
Bedfordshire 
Implementing 
technology 
solution for 
sustainable 
development 
of artisanal 
fisheries in 
Santa Catarina 
(TAF) 
FAPESC 
8 
Ronaldo 
Christofoletti 
UNIFESP 
Stuart Jenkins 
Universidade 
de Bangor 
Costal 
Biodiversity 
and Public 
Policies: 
methodologies 
FAPESP 
   
                                                                                                                                    
and action to 
integrate 
stakeholders. 
9 
Cristiana 
Ramalho 
Maciel 
UFPA 
Chiara 
Benvenuto 
Universidade 
de Salford 
Prawns, 
Shrimp & Co. 
Demand, 
supply and 
food security 
of crustaceans 
in north 
eastern Pará, 
Brazil: current 
status, 
challenges and 
future 
directions 
FAPESPA 
 
 
Brasília, 14 de novembro de 2017. 
