
 
 
ADDENDUM TO THE CONFAP- UK ACADEMIES CALL 
 
The Brazilian Council of State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) informs that the State 
Funding Agencies (FAPs) listed below have agreed to take part in the CONFAP – UK 
Academies Call during the National Meeting in Rio Branco, AC - Brazil, on July 22nd, 
2014: 
 
1. State Funding Agency of Acre (FAPAC) 
2. State Funding Agency of Amapá (FAPEAP) 
3. State Funding Agency of Amazonas (FAPEAM) 
4. State Funding Agency of Bahia (FAPESB) 
5. State Funding Agency of Espírito Santo (FAPES)  
6. State Funding Agency of Goiás (FAPEG) 
7. State Funding Agency of Maranhão (FAPEMA) 
8. State Funding Agency of Mato Grosso (FAPEMAT) 
9. State Funding Agency of Mato Grosso do Sul (FUNDECT) 
10. State Funding Agency of Minas Gerais (FAPEMIG) 
11. State Funding Agency of Pará (FAPESPA) 
12. State Funding Agency of Paraná (FUNDAÇÃO ARAUCÁRIA) 
13. State Funding Agency of Pernambuco (FACEPE) 
14. State Funding Agency of Rio de Janeiro (FAPERJ) 
15. State Funding Agency of Rio Grande do Norte  (FAPERN) 
16. State Funding Agency of Rio Grande do Sul (FAPERGS) 
17. State Funding Agency of Rondônia (FAPERO) 
18. State Funding Agency of Santa Catarina (FAPESC) 
19. State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP) 
20. State Funding Agency of Sergipe (FAPITEC) 
 
 
NOTE: CONFAP states that other FAPs are in the process of signing up the 
Agreement and shall be included in this list. 
  
 
 
CONFAP – THE UK ACADEMIES 
Fellowship and Research Mobility 
 
The first round opens on September 10th 2014 for applications and will close on 
October 22nd 2014 at 12 AM Brasília Time. 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council 
(CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal for activities of fellowship and 
research mobility directed to researchers based in UK Universities and 
Research Institutions to research activities in Brazil. These activities are under 
the auspice of the Newton Fund.  
The Newton Fund is a new initiative that aims to develop the long-term 
sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research, 
innovation capacities, and is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance 
commitment. 
These awards of up to three years of support offer an opportunity for the UK 
researcher to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups 
through training, collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the 
best research groups in the Brazil. 
 
For further information please contact aci@fapemig.br, duvidasfundonewton-
faperj2014@faperj.br (directed only to researchers from the State of Rio de 
Janeiro) or chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br (directed only to researchers 
from the State of São Paulo).  
 
 
  
 
How to apply 
Applications are available at: http://confap.org.br/. After the completion of the 
application 
form, 
the 
eligible 
researcher 
must 
send 
it 
to 
fundonewton@confap.org.br. For submission to the State of Rio de Janeiro 
apply to fundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br and for the State of São Paulo: 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br 
About the scheme 
ELIGIBILITY 
 The applicants must hold a PhD degree: 
Young researchers are considered to hold a PhD degree from 2 years to 
7 years. 
Senior researchers must hold a PhD degree for over 7 years. 
 The applicants must have a Brazilian-based collaborator as their co-
applicant.  
 The applicants must hold a permanent academic post or postdoctoral 
fellowship/position which extends beyond the period of the grant in UK. 
 UK researchers from the natural sciences including engineering, medical 
sciences (including clinical or patient-oriented research), social sciences 
and humanities fields are eligible to apply for support. 
 The eligibility criteria for FAPESP support are: 
In case of Fellowship: the UK researcher must be associated to a 
FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in charge of an ongoing grant of the following 
types: Thematic, Young Investigator, or Research, Innovation, and 
Diffusion of Knowledge Centers. 
In case of Research Mobility: it comprises the FAPESP Visiting 
Researcher Grant which requires a host researcher (co-applicant) in the 
State of São Paulo. 
  
 
 
TYPES OF GRANT 
Concerning the Fellowship activity, there are two categories for the UK 
researcher: 
 
A. For Young Researchers: 
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 7,000.00 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher 
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months 
 
B. For Senior Researchers: 
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 10,000.00 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher 
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months 
 
In case the UK researcher chooses to be based in Brazil in a University or 
Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:  
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 
13,653.60 (the level is to be suggested by the host investigator and 
confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review).  
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher. 
 Grant to the PI in charge of which the visitor will be associated to may 
request to FAPESP supplementary funds of up to R$ 25,000.00 for every 
six months of stay of the visitor. These funds are to be used for research 
related consumable materials, services, and travel.  
 
 
  
 
 
Concerning the Research Mobility activity, UK researcher can apply for two 
types: 
A. Mission up to fifteen days: 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance. 
 Daily support defined by the State Funding Agencies (FAPs) 
 
B. Mission from sixteen days to three months: 
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and health insurance. 
 A monthly scholarship in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly. 
 
In case the UK researcher chooses to be based in Brazil in a University or 
Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:  
A. Mission up one month: 
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of value. 
 
B. Mission from one month to three months: 
 Airline ticket and health insurance. 
 A monthly scholarship from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 13,653.60 (the value of 
the scholarship should be suggested by the host investigator and 
confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review). 
 
SELECTION CRITERIA 
All applications will be assessed by a Selection panel on the following criteria: 
 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
 
The track record of the Applicant and the overseas host organisation in 
the area of proposed research. 
 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant. 
  
 
 
The track record and suitability of the Brazilian-based Co-applicant and 
Brazilian host organisation in the area of proposed research. 
 
The additional benefits for the Brazilian based Co-applicant and host 
organisation. 
 
Evidence that the Fellowship will lead to a long-term collaboration 
beyond the tenure of the award. 
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX 
  
 
CONFAP – UK ACADEMIES 
Application Form 
1) Identification 
 
1.1) Name of the UK applicant: 
 
 
 
1.2 Area of Knowledge: 
 
 
1.3) UK university and department 
 
 
 
2) Identification of the Brazilian co-applicant 
 
2.1) Name of the Brazilian co-applicant researcher: 
 
 
2.2) Area of Knowledge: 
 
 
2.3) Brazilian university and department in which the UK applicant will be based: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
2.4) Name of the belonging Brazilian State Funding Agency (FAP): 
 
 
3) Please select the Programme for which you are applying: 
 
 
Fellowship 
 
Research Mobility 
 
 
4) Expected period of permanence in Brazil: 
 
 
5) Brief description of the proposed project (maximum two pages): 
 
5.1)Title of the Project: 
 
 
5.2) Objectives: 
 
 
5.3) Justification: 
 
 
5.4) Elaborate on the importance of the collaboration: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
6) Brief description of estimated budget: 
 
6.1) Fellowship budget 
 
Note: If you are applying for the mobility grants, please go to section 6.2. 
 
6.1.1) All FAPs, except for FAPESP 
 
6.1.1.1) Total expenditure of the project:   
 
 
6.1.1.2) Scholarships: 
 
 
6.1.1.3) Airline tickets: 
 
 
6.1.1.4) Health insurance: 
 
 
6.1.1.5) Quota for scholarships of scientific initiation: 
 
 
6.1.1.6) Expenditures with grants for every six months: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
6.1.2) FAPESP (go to www.fapesp.br)  
All the information shall be fill in direct in the FAPESP webpage.  
 
6.2) Mobility Grants 
 
 
6.2.1) All FAPs, except for FAPESP 
 
 
 
6.2.1.1) Missions of up to fifteen days 
 
 
 
6.2.1.1.1) Airline tickets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.1.2) Health insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.1.3) Daily support 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.2) Missions ranging from 16 days to three months 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.2.1) Airline tickets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.2.2) Health insurance 
 
 
 
 
 
6.2.1.2.3) Scholarships 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
6.2.2) FAPESP (go to www.fapesp.br)  
All the information shall be fill in direct in the FAPESP webpage.  
 
 
 
7) Expected timetable of the project: 
Describe phases in time for activities planned. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Newton Fund Brazil 
CONFAP - UK National Academies 
Fellowships and Research Mobility 
 
The Brazilian National Council for the State Funding Agencies (CONFAP) in collaboration 
with UK National Academies (the Royal Society, the British Academy, The Academy of 
Medical Science and the Royal Academy of Engineering) has established new 
opportunities for the exchange of researchers between Brazil and the UK under the 
auspices of the Newton Fund.  The Newton Fund is a new initiative that aims to develop 
the long-term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building 
research and innovation capacity, and forms part of the UK’s Official Development 
Assistance commitment. The CONFAP and the UK Academies have agreed to establish a 
three year programme, which aims to develop research and innovation partnerships to 
support the development of a well-trained research community, and establish long-term 
and sustainable links between the best researchers in Brazil and UK.  During the next 
three years, the following programmes will be offered to researchers in Brazil: 
 
 
Fellowships: for UK Young and Senior Researchers to spend from six months to 
thirty six months for the development of scientific research in Universities or Research 
Institutions in Brazil. 
 
Research Mobility: for Researchers based in UK to spend from seven days to three 
months to develop collaborative activities with a partner in Brazil. 
 
Young Investigators Awards: for young researcher from UK to start a research 
career in a University or Research Institution in the State of São Paulo (offered only by 
FAPESP).  
 
New Call Open Now – Fellowships 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council (CONFAP), would 
like to invite applications for the first round of the Fellowships, which provides to Young 
and Senior Researchers who hold a permanent post in an UK Research Institution with an 
opportunity to develop a scientific research in Universities or Research Institutions in 
Brazil.  
 
Awards last for up to thirty six months and are available to support researchers across the 
natural sciences including engineering, clinical or patient-oriented research, social 
sciences and humanities. The support includes a monthly scholarship, travel support, one 
scholarship for undergraduate student, and grant for research in each six months.  
 
  
The support offered by the State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP) is to UK 
researchers who are associated to a FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in charge of an ongoing 
grant of the following types: Thematic, Young Investigator, or Research, Innovation, and 
Diffusion of Knowledge Centers. In these categories the support by FAPESP comprises a 
monthly scholarship, travel support, quota of scholarship for PhD and Scientific Initiation, 
and grant for research in each six months. 
 
The list of FAPs participants may be seen at: http://confap.org.br  
Application shall be submitted to fundonewton@confap.org.br after filling in the application 
form available at: http://confap.org.br/    
Closing date of applications: 22nd October 2014, 12 am (Brasília time)  
 
New Call Open Now – Research Mobility 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council (CONFAP), would 
like to invite applications for the first round of the Research Mobility. This scheme aims 
to support mobility of UK-based researchers to the development of collaborative research 
with investigators from Universities and Research Institutions in Brazil.    
 
It is expected that the mobility grants will establish links between partners. These 
researchers may subsequently wish to consider applying for the Newton Advanced 
Fellowships and Newton International Fellowships.  
 
Awards last from seven days up to three months and are available to support researchers 
across the natural sciences, engineering, social sciences and humanities. The award will 
cover costs for travel, subsistence and research expenses. Applications must have a 
Brazilian and UK co-applicant and both UK and Brazilian counterparts must have a 
permanent or fixed term contract which runs beyond the term of the grant.  
 
The support includes a daily or monthly scholarship (it depends of the period in which UK 
researcher stays in Brazil) and travel support.  
 
Concerning the support offered by the State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP), it 
comprises the FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grant which requires a host researcher (co-
applicant) in the State of São Paulo and offers daily or monthly scholarship (it depends of 
the period in which UK researcher stays in Brazil) and travel support.  
 
The list of FAPs participants may be seen at: http://confap.org.br/    
Application shall be submitted to fundonewton@confap.org.br after filling in the application 
form available at: http://confap.org.br/   For submission to the State of Rio de Janeiro 
apply to fundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br and for the State of São Paulo: 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br 
 
Closing date of applications: 22nd October 2014, 12 am (Brasília time)  
 
  
Inquires should be sent to aci@fapemig.br , duvidasfundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br 
(only 
to 
researchers 
from 
the 
State 
of 
Rio 
de 
Janeiro) 
or 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br (only to researchers from the State of São Paulo).  
 
New Call Open Now – Young Investigator Award 
 
São Paulo State Funding Agency (FAPESP) would like to invite applications for the first 
round of the Young Investigator Award. This award provides an opportunity for young 
investigator from the UK to start a research career in a University or Research Institute in 
the State of São Paulo. In addition this award is exclusive supported by the State Funding 
Agency of São Paulo.   
 
This award comprises a scholarship for the Young Investigator to be paid for up for years 
or until the research obtains a permanent position in an University or Research Institution, 
grant to purchase necessary item to the research (equipments, consumables, services, 
and travel), support for scholarship to Direct Doctorate, MSc, and Scientific Initiation.  
 
Application shall be submitted to chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br after filling in the 
application form available at: www.fapesp.br   
Inquires should be sent to chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br    
 
Closing date of applications: 22nd October 2014, 12 am (Brasília time)  
 
 
 
  
Fellowships  
Young and Senior Researchers 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated by its National Council (CONFAP), are 
calling for applications for the first round of the Fellowships scheme under the auspices of 
the Newton Fund. The Newton Fund is a new initiative that aims to develop the long-term 
sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through building research, innovation 
capacity, and forms part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance commitment.  
The Fellowships scheme provides young and senior researchers who hold a permanent 
academic post or postdoctoral fellowship/position which extends beyond the period of the 
grant in a UK Research Institution with the opportunity to develop academic research at 
Universities or Institutions in Brazil.  
Awards last for between 6 months to 36 months and are available to support researchers 
across the natural sciences including engineering; clinical or patient-oriented research; 
social sciences and humanities. 
The FAPs (excluding The State Funding Agency of São Paulo, FAPESP) offer: 
 
Scholarship: for Young Researchers in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly; and for 
Senior Researchers, who have completed a PhD programme more than seven years 
ago, the amount of R$ 10,000.00 monthly. 
 
Travel support: airline tickets and health insurance. 
 
Scholarship: for one undergraduate student to assist the Researcher. 
 
Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 every six months. 
FAPESP offers support for visiting researchers who must be associated to a FAPESP PI 
(co-applicant) in charge of an ongoing grant of the following types: Thematic, Young 
Investigator, or Research, Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centers. The FAPESP 
support comprises: 
 
Scholarship:  ranging from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 13,653.60 (the amount is to be 
suggested by the host investigator and reviewed under individual merit and 
confirmed by FAPESP).  
 
Travel support: airline ticket and health insurance. 
  
 
Scholarship: for on undergraduate student to assist the Researcher. 
 
Grant: The PI in charge of the grant to which the visitor will be associated may 
request from FAPESP supplementary funds of up to R$ 25,000.00 for every six 
months of the visitor’s stay. These funds are to be used for research related 
consumable materials, services, and travel. 
 
Post-doctoral scholarship: in case of visitors staying for 36 months.  
Applicants must have a UK based collaborator as their co-applicant.  
Inquires should be sent via email to aci@fapemig.br  or in the case of researchers from the 
State 
of 
Rio 
de 
Janeiro 
to 
duvidasfundonewton-faperj2014@faperj.br 
or 
to 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br in the case of researchers from the State of São Paulo.. 
The list of FAPs participants may be found at: http://confap.org.br  
NOTE: Deadline for the first round is on 22/10/2014 at 12am Brasília time.  
 
 
  
  
RESEARCH MOBILITY 
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies, articulated by its National Council 
(CONFAP), are calling for applications for the first round of the Research 
Mobility under the auspices of the Newton Fund. The Newton Fund is a new 
initiative that aims to develop the long-term sustainable growth and welfare of 
partner countries through building research, innovation capacity, and forms part 
of the UK’s Official Development Assistance commitment.  
Research Mobility provides an opportunity to UK researchers for collaborative 
activities with investigators from Universities and Research Institution in Brazil. 
Awards last for up to three months and are available to support researchers 
across the natural sciences including engineering, clinical or patient-oriented 
research, social sciences and humanities. The support comprises: 
 Mission up to fifteen days: airline tickets, health insurance, and daily 
support defined by the States Funding Agencies (FAPs). 
 Mission from sixteen days to three months: airline tickets, health 
insurance, and scholarship in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly. 
Concerning to the State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP) support, it 
comprises the FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grant which requires a host 
researcher (co-applicant) in the State of São Paulo and offers: 
 Mission up one month: airline ticket, health insurance, and daily 
support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of value. 
 Mission from one month to three months: airline ticket, health 
insurance, and scholarship from R$ 9,148.80 to R$ 13,653.60 (the value 
of the scholarship should be suggested by the host investigator and 
confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review).  
 The FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grant can have a duration of up to 12 
months.  
Applicants must have a Brazilian based collaborator as their co-applicant.  
  
Inquires 
should 
be 
sent 
to 
aci@fapemig.br 
, 
duvidasfundonewton-
faperj2014@faperj.br (only to researchers from the State of Rio de Janeiro) or 
chamada_ukacademies@fapesp.br (only to researchers from the State of São 
Paulo).  
The list of FAPs participants may be seen at: www.confap.org.br  
NOTE: Deadline for the first round 22/10/2014 at 12 am Brasília time. 
 
  
  
ESTADO DE GOIÁS 
FUNDAÇÃO DE AMPARO À PESQUISA 
 
