
 
 
1 
 
 
Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the Implementing Arrangement between the 
European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies to provide research 
opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers 
1. OBJECTIVE: 
The Brazilian National Council for State Funding Agencies – CONFAP – invites Brazilian active Postdoctoral 
Grantees from the State Funding Agencies (FAPs), from the Coordination for the Improvement of Higher 
Education Personnel (CAPES) and from the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development 
(CNPq), to pursue research collaborations with Principal Investigators already supported through EU-funded 
European Research Council (ERC) grants. 
 
2. MODALITIES: 
Principal Investigators holding ERC grants have expressed interest in hosting Brazilian researchers to 
contribute to their teams for short or longer periods (up to 12 months); 
Such expressions of interest have been sent to the European Research Council Executive Agency (ERCEA) who 
has shared them with CONFAP, according to the Implementing Agreement signed by the European 
Commission and CONFAP; 
On such basis, the present Call for Expression of Interest for Brazilian Researchers is launched. 
ERC-funded projects, which are open to hosting Brazilian researchers, cover a wide range of scientific fields 
and have been selected by the European Commission and the ERC, within the following evaluation panels: 
 
a. Molecular and Structural Biology and Biochemistry  
b. Genetics, Genomics, Bioinformatics and Systems Biology  
c. Cellular and Developmental Biology  
d. Physiology, Pathophysiology and Endocrinology  
e. Neurosciences and Neural Disorders  
f. Immunity and Infection  
g. Diagnostic Tools, Therapies and Public Health 
h. Evolutionary, Population and Environmental Biology 
i. 
Applied life Sciences and Non-Medical Biotechnology 
j. 
Mathematics  
k. Fundamental Constituents of Matter 
l. 
Condensed Matter Physics 
m. Physical and Analytical Chemical Sciences 
n. Synthetic Chemistry and Materials  
o. Computer Science and Informatics 
p. Systems and Communication Engineering  
q. Products and Processes Engineering 
r. Universe Sciences  
s. Earth System Science  
t. Markets, Individuals and Institutions 
u. Institutions, Values, Beliefs and Behaviour  
v. Environment, Space and Population  
                                                                                                
 
 
2 
 
w. The Human Mind and Its Complexity  
x. Cultures and Cultural Production  
y. The Study of the Human Past  
z. Synergy 
Modalities of implementation are divided in the following steps: 
I. 
Brazilian researchers should, in first instance, contact their respective FAP in order to verify if specific 
additional eligibility criteria are requested.  
II. 
Brazilian researchers interested in the up mentioned fields of research, and which comply with the 
eligibility conditions described in Item 4, are invited to send a Letter Expression of Interest to CONFAP 
(model provided in Annex A of the present call). 
III. 
Subsequently, CONFAP informs them, through the issuance of a Dear Colleague Letter, providing 
information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers, including 
the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and contacts. 
IV. 
Brazilian researchers have to contact the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant of the project 
that is of interest and must reach with him an agreement on the possibility of joining his research 
team as well as jointly define a Work Plan and related conditions. 
V. 
Brazilian researchers have to send to their respective FAPs their proposal, following agreements 
taken with the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant and according to the orientations in Item 
4. 
VI. 
Each FAP involved (depending on the State of origin of the applicant Brazilian researcher) will assess 
the proposal and communicate to CONFAP the results of such assessment. 
VII. 
Results are then communicated to the ERC and to the Principal Investigator holding the ERC grant, 
and are subsequently published. 
 
3. FUNDING: 
Scientific exchanges shall start in the second semester of 2017 and can be either performed on a more 
extended timeframe (i.e. lasting 6 to 12 months) or be divided in multiple and shorter visits, i.e. to perform 
joint experimentation or similar research activities. 
Brazilian active Postdoctoral grantees from FAPs, CAPES and CNPq will continue to receive their salaries 
and/or scholarship according to their institutional terms and conditions. 
The Brazilian State Funding Agencies linked to the selected Brazilian Researchers (from the State of Origin of 
the researchers – i.e. where they actively work) will provide support for travel expenses. In case of a long-
term visit (6 months or longer); travel allowance for accompanying family may also be covered. 
Visiting Brazilian researchers which shall be incorporated into the research teams of the ERC-funded Principal 
Investigators (at the Host Institution of the ERC projects), for the duration of the visit, may receive support 
from the ERC grant, and such funding shall be negotiated and defined by the ERC funded Principal 
Investigators and the Brazilian researchers. 
The ERC-funded Principal Investigators are expected to establish and decide in advance, with the visiting 
Brazilian researcher, the research conditions, which should offer an enabling environment for the research 
visits and be in line with the applicable national law and any other rules and regulations applicable on the 
Host institution. 
The costs, which can be reimbursed under the ERC grant, must be eligible within the terms of the grant and 
the maximum amount of the ERC grant cannot be increased for this purpose. 
Eligible cost categories include: 
                                                                                                
 
 
3 
 
a) subsistence costs on a per diem basis, or any other applicable modality of the Host Institution, in 
accordance with the applicable national law and any other rules or regulations applicable on the Host 
Institution, commensurate to the level of experience of the individual visiting researcher; 
b) any other eligible costs incurred during the visit of the Brazilian researchers that are directly related 
to the ERC-funded project. 
 
4. ELIGIBILITY: 
Eligible Brazilian Researchers are: active Postdoctoral Grantees from the State Funding Agencies (FAPs), from 
the Coordination for the Improvement of Higher Education Personnel (CAPES) and from the National Council 
for Scientific and Technological Development (CNPq). 
Under the present Call for Expressions of Interest, the interested researchers should, in first instance, contact 
their respective FAP in order to verify if specific additional eligibility criteria are requested. 
Submission of proposals:  
a) In a first step, researchers must send to CONFAP (Item 2, Point II): a letter of Expression of Interest, 
using the template indicated in Annex A of the present Call for Expression of Interest, in order to 
receive from CONFAP information about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian 
researchers, including the description of their respective ERC-funded projects and contacts. 
 
The Letter for Expression of Interest must specify how the researcher complies to the eligibility 
criteria of the present call. 
 
b) In a second step, researchers must contact the ERC Grantee of the project that is of interest and 
reach an agreement on his participation. The researcher needs to receive from the ERC Grantee and 
from the Host Institution a formal acceptance, which is necessary in order to be eligible to submit 
the proposal to the respective FAP. 
 
c) In a third step, researchers must submit, directly to the respective FAP (Item 2, Point V):  
a. Curriculum Vitae; 
b. Work Plan, facilities and resources that the ERC-funded Principal Investigator and Host 
Institution shall provide to the Brazilian visiting researcher; 
c. Letter of Acceptance from the University or Research centre of Origin of the Brazilian 
researcher; 
d. Letter of Acceptance from the ERC-funded Principal Investigator, indicating his consent on 
integrating the Brazilian researcher in his team and on his proposal and Work Plan; 
e. Letter of Acceptance from the Host Institution in Europe, which confirms the availability to 
receive the Brazilian researcher in the terms and timing foreseen in the Work Plan. 
 
5. ASSESSMENT: 
Assessment of proposals will be done by each FAP individually and will be then communicated to CONFAP.  
Assessment criteria are based on the unique criteria of Scientific Excellence, in coherence and in order to be 
aligned with ERC grants. 
                                                                                                
 
 
4 
 
Scientific Excellence shall consider the academic background, quality, publications, technological 
development, participation in public, private, national or international funded projects. 
Scientific excellence shall also consider the Work Plan, which is presented as well as the impact and 
importance of the collaboration for the Brazilian context. 
Originality, innovation and feasibility shall also be assessed in this framework. 
 
6. DEADLINES: 
The interested Brazilian researchers should express their interest in receiving from CONFAP information 
about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers in a timely manner, in order to 
be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 4 within the 
deadline: 31st of May 2017. 
Letters of Interest at the first stage and complete proposals at the second stage must be sent in electronic 
format, at the following email address: confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
Results shall be published on CONFAP’s webpage: http://confap.org.br/news/horizonte-2020/ 
Additional information - ‘ERC teams open to the world':  
https://erc.europa.eu/funding-and-grants/managing-project/set-up-develop-your-team 
 
 
 
                                                                                                
 
 
5 
 
 
ANNEX A 
 
Letter for Expression of Interest 
CONFAP – ERC_ IA Call 
To: CONFAP – Brazilian National 
Council of State funding Agencies 
confap.erc.ia@gmail.com 
Date:         
           
Name and Surname: 
 
Institution: 
 
Brazilian State where I carry 
out my research activity: 
 
Active grants, projects or  
contracts in which I am 
currently involved: 
 
Research position: 
 
 
 
With reference to the: “Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the Implementing 
Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding 
Agencies to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers”; 
I herewith express my interest in receiving from CONFAP information about the ERC-funded projects that 
may host interested Brazilian researchers, including the description of their respective ERC-funded projects 
and contacts. 
To this end, I indicate that I comply with the eligibility criteria requested by the Call, as follows: 
 
Faithfully, 
 
 
______________________________ 
Name and Signature 
 
 
                                                                                                
 
 
1 
 
Corrigendum No. 1 
 
Reference: Implementing Agreement signed by the European Commission and the Brazilian National 
Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP 
Subject: Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the Implementing Arrangement between 
the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies to provide 
research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers 
 
Section No. 6 - Deadlines: 
Instead of: 
The interested Brazilian researchers should express their interest in receiving from CONFAP information 
about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers in a timely manner, in order to 
be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 4 within the 
deadline: 31st of May 2017. 
Read: 
The interested Brazilian researchers should express their interest in receiving from CONFAP information 
about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers in a timely manner, in order to 
be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 4 within the 
deadline: 21st of June 2017. 
All other terms and conditions of the Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the Implementing 
Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding 
Agencies to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers remain unchanged. 
The above modifications are integral part of the Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the 
Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State 
Funding Agencies to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers. 
 
     
 
 
 
 
COMUNICADO -   Chamada Pública 
Internacional com Adesão da FAPESC: 
European Research Council 2017 
 
A  FUNDAÇÃO DE  AMPARO  À  PESQUISA  
E  INOVAÇÃO  DO  ESTADO  DE SANTA    
CATARINA    -    FAPESC    e    o EUROPEAN 
RESEARCH COUNCIL - ERC,  comunicam  
alteração  do  cronograma  do  edital.   
Onde se lê, no item 6 (DEADLINES), que os 
documentos devem ser enviados até 31 de 
maio de 2017,  
Leia-se: os documentos devem ser 
enviados até 21 de junho de 2017.  
 
Florianópolis,  26  de  maio 
de  2017.  
 
                                                                                                
 
 
1 
 
Corrigendum No. 2 
 
Reference: Implementing Agreement signed by the European Commission and the Brazilian National 
Council of State Funding Agencies – CONFAP 
Subject: Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the Implementing Arrangement between 
the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State Funding Agencies to provide 
research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers 
 
Section No. 6 - Deadlines: 
Instead of: 
The interested Brazilian researchers should express their interest in receiving from CONFAP information 
about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers in a timely manner, in order 
to be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 4 within the 
deadline: 31st of May 2017. 
Read: 
The interested Brazilian researchers should express their interest in receiving from CONFAP information 
about the ERC-funded projects that may host interested Brazilian researchers in a timely manner, in order 
to be able to submit their complete proposal, covering all the documents requested in Item no. 4 within the 
deadline: 30st of June 2017. 
Results will be published the 14th of August CONFAP’s website: www.confap.org. 
All other terms and conditions of the Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the 
Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State 
Funding Agencies to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers remain unchanged. 
The above modifications are integral part of the Call for Expression of Interest Call in the framework of the 
Implementing Arrangement between the European Commission and the Brazilian National Council of State 
Funding Agencies to provide research opportunities in Europe for Brazilian researchers. 
 
