
 
  
 
 
GlobalStars Call for Proposals  
for Joint R&D Projects under EUREKA  
between Brazil and the EUREKA member countries:  
Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, The Netherlands, Spain 
and Switzerland 
 
Time Schedule 
Opening of the Call   
05 July  2018 
Deadline for EUREKA Application 
31 October 2018  
Feedback and invitation to submit 
national proposal / fulfill national 
requirements 
15 November 2018 
International Panel Consensus 
Meeting of National Funding & 
EUREKA Label 
01 April 2019   
Funding Decision  
(latest date) 31 August 2019 
 
EUREKA (www.eurekanetwork.org) is an intergovernmental organisation for market-
driven industrial research and development. It is a decentralised network facilitating 
the coordination of national funding on Research, Development and Innovation, 
aiming to boost the productivity & competitiveness of industries. EUREKA has been a 
driving force of innovation in Europe for over 30 years.  
 
 
 
1. Call description 
 
Within the GlobalStars initiative of EUREKA, based on mutual consent, Brazil and 
Austria, , France, Germany The Netherlands, Spain and Switzerland are launching a 
common call. Participants from Brazil and the respective EUREKA member countries 
are invited to submit joint project proposals in any field of industrial and technological 
research. 
 
 
2. Scope  
This call invites projects in ALL thematic areas, reflecting the bottom-up approach of 
the EUREKA Network projects. 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
3. Eligibility criteria 
Partners must meet the following qualifications: 
 
 
The consortium should include at least one Brazilian and one (for profit, 
independent) company of the EUREKA member countries participating in the 
call. Participation of research institutes and universities is welcome according to 
each country’s funding regulations. 
 
The project partners must express their will to cooperate on a win-win/fair basis 
in an R&D project leading to a new product, industrial process or service. 
 
The product, process or service must be innovative, and there must be a 
technological risk involved for all involved partners. 
 
The project must benefit all involved partners. 
 
The project should have an obvious benefit and added value resulting from the 
technological cooperation between the participants from the different countries 
(e.g. increased knowledge base, commercial leads, access to R&D 
infrastructure etc.). 
 
Partners are required, prior to submitting the application, to contact their 
national/regional Authority (see below) in order to check the eligibility of their 
project. 
 
A signed consortium agreement is mandatory before the actual start of the 
project. It ought to include, amongst others, the ownership and use of know-how 
and IPR settlements  
 
The duration of the project may not exceed 36 months. 
 
Any partner whose cooperative R&D project is consistent with the aforesaid criteria 
can apply to the present call in accordance with the national laws, rules, regulations 
and procedures in effect in each country, on a non-exchange of funds basis, and 
subject to budgetary availability. 
 
4. Submission  
 
4.1 Partners should fill in the common EUREKA application form:   
 
http://www.eurekanetwork.org/eureka-project-application-form    
 
The completed electronic form should be sent to globalstars@eurekanetwork.org by 
31 October 2018 with the following subject: Globalstars Brazil 2018. 
 
A separate document with scanned signatures should be added to the digital version 
form as an integral part of the application.  
 
The form must be completed in English. 
 
  
 
  
 
 
Brazilian participants should address the Funding Body (or Funding Bodies) with the 
exact project costs allocated to it.  
 
4.2. Until 15 November the National/Regional Funding Bodies involved in the Call will 
select eligible proposals and invite project-participants to submit the national/regional 
application. The deadline for national/regional submissions is subject to 
national/regional regulations. The details are provided in the country information below.   
 
Fulfilment of national/regional requirements is mandatory, funding decisions are 
depending on national/regional evaluations.   
 
 
5. Evaluation: 
 
 
National/Regional Funding Bodies will execute the evaluation according to the 
national/regional funding criteria (described and published below).  
 
National/Regional Funding Bodies involved in the call will form the International 
Evaluation Panel. The role of the International Evaluation Panel is to establish a 
ranking list of all projects in descending order of quality.  
 
6. Funding & National Authorities 
 
Organizations named bellow will provide public funding for positively evaluated 
projects.  
 
Funding will be provided only to projects approved by all participating countries. 
 
Each country will fund its participants according to its national procedures and 
funding rules laws, rules and regulations: 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
IN BRAZIL  
 
FINEP 
 
Finep, the Brazilian Innovation Agency, is a state owned company under the Ministry 
of Science Technology Innovations and Communications, whose mission is to 
promote Brazil's economic and social development through public funding for 
Science, Technology and Innovation at companies, universities, technological 
institutes and other public or private institutions. 
All companies registered in Brazil are eligible for funding. Public and private 
universities and research centres can be funded as subcontractors only. 
Financial support for each of the applicants will be given according to Finep’s 
established conditions. The funding provided by Finep is grants and loans.  
The minimum grant budget for Brazilian applicants is 100.000 € and the maximum is 
1.000.000 €.  
More information, including eligibility requirements and fundable items are available 
at http://www.finep.gov.br/apoio-e-financiamento-externa/instrumentos-de-
apoio/subvencao-economica  
 
The grant funding provided by Finep:  
-max. 80% of the eligible costs for small companies,  
-max.  60% of the eligible costs for medium-sized companies and 
-max. 40%for large companies 
 
The loan funding conditions are available at www.finep.gov.br 
 
It should be emphasized that the public selection here dealt with does not oblige 
FINEP to grant the required funding in the proposals that will be selected, serving 
only as a pre-qualification of these to the receipt of support presented. The granting 
of effective support will be conditional on compliance with the usual flow of 
procedures in force, including technical, financial, legal, guarantees, approval, 
contracting and follow-up. 
 
 
 
FAPESP 
São Paulo Research Foundation – FAPESP – is an independent public foundation 
with the mission to foster research and the scientific and technological development 
of the State of São Paulo. The foundation works in close contact with the scientific 
community: all proposals are peer reviewed with the help of area panels composed of 
active researchers. Besides funding research in all fields, the foundation supports 
large research programs in Biodiversity, Bioenergy, Global Climate Change, and in e-
Science. 
The FAPESP grant modalities selected for this call are: 
  
 
  
 
 
1. Innovative Research in Small Businesses (PIPE), Phase 2: For this call, the 
research proposals should clearly demonstrate the evidence of innovation 
involving joint collaboration between small businesses based in the State of 
São Paulo and partners abroad. More information, including eligibility 
requirements and fundable items are available at www.fapesp.br/pipe. 
2. Partnership for Technological Innovation (PITE): For this call, the research 
proposals should clearly demonstrate the collaboration between companies, 
research institutions from the State of São Paulo and partners abroad. More 
information, including eligibility requirements and fundable items are available 
at www.fapesp.br/pite. 
 
EMBRAPII - Brazilian Agency for Industrial Research and Innovation 
 
EMBRAPII is a nonprofit private Organization that holds a service contract with the 
Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovations and Communications (MCTIC), with the 
Ministry of Education (MEC) and with the Ministry of Health in order to foster projects 
of RD&I in the Brazilian environment.  
EMBRAPII’s operating model supports Brazilian RD&I projects through non-refundable 
grants for researches carried out between its accredited research institutions, called 
EMBRAPII Units, and Brazilian industrial companies.   
EMBRAPII funding is available in all technological fields and within a continuous flow. 
Interested companies can at any time negotiate directly with   their chosen EMBRAPII 
Units, in a simple and non-bureaucratic way. EMBRAPII Unit is legally able to decide 
upon all aspects of the project to be developed, including its costs, timetable, IP 
requirements, and contract procedures.  
All projects supported in the framework of the EMBRAPII System must include 
previously established investment shares from EMBRAPII Units in economic resources 
(in kind) and from partner companies in financial resources. EMBRAPII finances the 
development of pre-competitive R&D projects (from Technological Readiness Level 3 
to 7).  
EMBRAPII will not finance R&D projects leading to service. 
EMBRAPII funding model is shown below.  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
Funding  body 
Financial contribution 
EMBRAPII 
Maximum of 1/3 of Brazilian project costs 
Brazilian companies 
At least 1/3 of Brazilian project costs 
EMBRAPII Units 
Up to 1/3 of the remaining costs of the Brazilian 
projects 
 
All research institutions accredited as EMBRAPII Units are eligible to participate and 
use the resources of EMBRAPII, observing the required participation of one Brazilian 
company that will make a partnership with the international partner. Brazilian research 
institutions outside the EMBRAPII System are eligible to participate only as 
subcontractors. 
 
Companies must identify the EMBRAPII Unit of interest, discuss the proposal of 
project directly with its representative and fill and send the form in the link below: 
http://www.embrapii.org.br/globalstars  
 
 
 
IN EUREKA COUNTIRES 
 
 
 In Austria  
 
The Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) is the national funding agency for 
industrial research and development in Austria. As a "one-stop shop" offering a 
diversified and targeted program portfolio, the FFG gives Austrian businesses and 
research facilities quick and uncomplicated access to research funding. 
 
All companies registered in Austria are eligible for funding. Universities and research 
centers are welcome as subcontractors to Austrian company. In addition to the 
EUREKA project form the Austrian participant has to submit a separate national 
proposal to the General Program (Basisprogramm) via e-Call at the FFG webpage –
The project title should be the same as in the EUREKA proposal and indicate the 
Globalstars Brazil 2018.  
 
The evaluation of the Austrian project part is carried out by internal experts.  
 
The project must fulfill the national criteria (“Basisprogramm-Leitfaden”). All projects 
meeting the criteria of General Programmes can get funding.  
  
Funding in Austria is provided on an annual basis only, therefore follow-on 
applications must be submitted for the max. duration of 3 years. The funding provided 
by FFG are grants:  
  
 
  
 
 
- 
max. 60% of the eligible costs for small companies,  
- 
max.  50% of the eligible costs for medium-sized companies and 
- 
max. 40%for large companies 
  
 
Detailed information on national rules and procedures:  www.ffg.at/eureka.   
 
Project preparation may be funded for SMEs, see https://www.ffg.at/projektstart-
foerderung-bedingungen.  
 
In regional funding agencies you will find additional funding for matchmaking and 
partner-search activities. Find your regional contact person here: https://een.at/ueber-
uns/kontakt   
 
In Belgium 
For Flanders Innovation and Entrepreneurship (VLAIO), Belgium (Flanders region): 
Flanders Innovation and Entrepreneurship (VLAIO) is the contact point for 
entrepreneurs in Flanders. We encourage and support innovation and 
entrepreneurship, and contribute to a favourable business climate. We help 
companies with the start-up of their activities, the growth and continuity of their 
business 
 
In the VLAIO programme only companies can apply for funding via subsidies. 
Flemish or foreign academic partners or research institutes can be funded by VLAIO 
if their expertise is crucial for the Flemish partner (company) and if they are 
subcontracted by this company. 
 
In Belgium-Flanders the funding percentage for companies depends on the type of 
activities in the project, the size of the company and the participation of at least one 
SME: between 25% to maximum 60 %. 
 
In addition to the centrally submitted EUREKA Project Application Form, partners 
from Flanders need to submit an application to VLAIO, including a project plan and 
budget. We invite Flemish partners to contact us for a pre-check of their project 
ideas. 
More info:  https://www.vlaio.be/nl/subsidies-financiering/subsidies-voor-ooi-een-
internationaal-consortium/netwerken 
 
In France 
 
Bpifrance is a public investment bank which finances businesses from the seed phase 
to transfer to stock exchange listing, through loans, guarantees and equity. Bpifrance 
accompanies firms developing export activities and provides support to innovation 
projects. 
 
  
 
  
 
 
At the earliest stage prior to the submission of the EUREKA Project Form, 
Bpifrance may provide funding support through grant to cover French companies’ 
needs in the preparation of their project via the Technological Partnership Aid (APT).  
 
In FRANCE: No additional document needs to be submitted prior to the EUREKA 
application form. However, French partners must imperatively get in touch with the 
Bpifrance contact person ahead of submitting their EUREKA project application for its 
pre-check. Companies with pre-approved projects will then be invited to formally 
submit their national application for funding.  
Bpifrance funding: French companies must submit their funding application to 
Bpifrance within one month of receiving their eligibility notice.  A financing decision will 
be taken within three months after the receipt of a complete funding application. 
 
In the framework of EUREKA and according to Bpifrance funding rules, French 
enterprises with less than 2.000 employees (on the basis of the consolidated figures) 
are financed through interest free reimbursable loan. The funding rate is up to 65% 
(maximum amount: 3 M€). Bpifrance does not fund University and Research 
organizations. However University/Research Organizations are welcomed as 
subcontractors of French companies. French companies must confirm their 
financial capacity (equity capital, funds raising etc.) to support their participation 
in the project.  
The approval by Bpifrance of a financial support will depend on the finalization of a 
consortium agreement 
For further information about financing of French participants please directly contact 
Bpifrance. 
 
 
In Germany:  
 
In Germany, apart from the EUREKA Project Application (phase 1), participants will 
have to submit a formal project application using the official application system of the 
federal government when selected for phase 2. Responsible entity for the application 
procedure and the funding of the projects is DLR-PT (“European and International 
Cooperation”) on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Education and Research.  
 
The DLR-PT, part of the German Aerospace Center, is a research funding 
organisation supporting the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) and 
the Federal Ministry of Economics and Energy (BMWi), along with other Federal 
Ministries, in the implementation of programme-related project funding. 
The Federal Ministry of Education and Research will finance research and/or 
technological development activities of German companies, universities and research 
centers.  
 
To be eligible, the proposed project must be an industry driven research and 
development project in which the project partners are collaborating to realize a new, 
innovative product, process or service, which has the potential to be successfully 
commercialized by the consortium.  
 
  
 
  
 
 
The project must have an obvious advantage and added value resulting from the 
cooperation between the participants from the two countries (e.g. increased 
knowledge base, commercial leads, access to R&D infrastructure, new fields of 
application, etc.).  
 
On the German side, the consortium has to consist of at least one German company, 
based in Germany. Research institutes/universities can participate as partners or 
subcontractors.  
 
Only proposals in the thematic areas Bioeconomy (plant phenotyping, plant 
breeding, industrial use of residues, plant protection) and Raw materials of strategic 
importance are eligible for funding  
The project proposals have to comply with the following guidelines: 
 The consortium should include at least one Brazilian and one German partner.  
 The maximum funding amounts to 300,000 Euros per project; maximum 
duration is 36 months. 
 The funding rate will be for companies up to 50% of eligible costs, and for 
universities and research institutes up to 100% of eligible costs (plus 20% 
project flat-rate).  
 Participation on the basis of other funding programmes or by own financial 
resources (self-financing) is always possible for companies and research 
institutes.  
 The project must demonstrate the contribution of the participants from both 
countries 
 Any partner whose cooperative R&D project is consistent with the aforesaid 
criteria can apply to the present announcement in accordance with the 
national Laws, Rules, Regulations and Procedures in effect.  
Please contact DLR-PT for further information regarding the funding criteria. 
Project consortia selected for the formal application (second phase) will be informed 
about the necessary further steps in due time. Regulations of type “AZK” for 
companies and of type “AZA” for public institutions will apply (please refer to 
https://foerderportal.bund.de/easy/easy_index.php?auswahl=easy_formulare&formul
arschrank=bmbf)  
 
Detailed requirements and regulations for applications in Germany are available at 
https://www.bmbf.de/foerderungen/bekanntmachung-.....html.  
 
Simultaneously to the EUREKA Project Application Form the German applicants 
have to submit the following information: 
 A project description (as a separate pdf-file, max. 10 pages) along the 
following structure: 
o economic and social impact of the project results 
o achievement of a critical mass and better use of limited resources in 
fields of mutual interest 
  
 
  
 
 
o mutual access to cross-border and European value chains 
o in the field of energy technologies: 
 contribution to energy system integration on a cross-border and 
European level 
o in the fields of ICT and environmental technologies: 
 long-term effect on joint use of research infrastructures 
 A description of budget allocations, i.e. estimated percentages for personnel, 
travel, material, consumables, other (please specify). 
Please contact DLR-PT for further information regarding the funding criteria.  
 
In The Netherlands 
Netherlands Enterprise Agency (RVO.nl) encourages entrepreneurs in sustainable, 
agrarian, innovative and international business. It helps with grants, finding business 
partners, know-how and compliance with laws and regulations. The aim is to improve 
opportunities for entrepreneurs and strengthen their position. 
In the Dutch programme, only R&D costs are eligible for funding. Enterprises and 
research institutes can apply for grant funding up to 50% depending on the type of 
organization (large company, SME or Research institute) and the kind of activity 
(research ordevelopment).  
In addition to the centrally submitted EUREKA Project Application Form, partners 
from The Netherlands need to submit a national application to RVO, including a 
detailed project plan and budget. We invite Dutch partners to contact us for a pre-
check of their project ideas. 
More info: https://www.rvo.nl/subsidies-regelingen/eureka 
 
 
In Spain 
 
CDTI The Centre for the Development of Industrial Technology (CDTI), E.P.E. is a 
Public Business Entity, attached to the Ministry of Economy, Industry and 
Competitiveness, which fosters the technological development and innovation of 
Spanish companies. It is the entity that acts as Eureka Office and National Funding 
Body. 
 
CDTI-EPE will finance industrial research and/or technological development activities 
of Spanish companies. Universities and research centers can be funded as 
subcontractors. 
 
Funding conditions for Spanish partners may vary depending on the nature of the 
project and the size of company (small, medium or large) . For more information please 
access:  
http://www.cdti.es/index.asp?MP=100&MS=802&MN=1&r=1280*1024       
 
At the same time the EUREKA project application is sent to the Globalstars mailbox, 
Spanish partners must submit a formal R&D international project application through 
CDTI’s website (https://sede.cdti.gob.es/) including the EUREKA application form and 
the draft consortium agreement. Additional documents in Spanish, containing 
  
 
  
 
 
detailed information on the Spanish participants, could be requested depending on 
the specific type of funding requested by the company 
 
Spanish tasks in the project can only start after submitting the funding application to 
CDTI. For further information, please contact directly with CDTI. 
 
Participants are invited to contact CDTI before submitting the documents in order to 
check the eligibility of the project idea and consortium.  
 
 
In Switzerland 
 
The State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation SERI within the 
Federal Department of Economic Affairs, Education and Research EAER is the 
federal government's specialised agency for national and international matters 
concerning education, research and innovation policy. 
Through its participation in EUREKA it works in close collaboration with the Swiss 
Innovation Agency Innosuisse (former CTI) to promote science-based innovation in 
the interests of industry and society in Switzerland and international collaborations. 
Eligible for funding via grants are project partners adhering to Innosuisse rules, 
combining an industrial and academic partner on the CH side of the project. Please 
take into consideration that the proposal should be balanced in a way that the CH 
industrial partner has to carry the same amount of costs as the academic partner 
(University) in a project including a further 10%.  
A participation based on self-funding is also possible for individual industry or 
research-based partners. 
Participants are invited to contact their national project coordinators before submitting 
the documents in order to check the eligibility of the project idea and consortium and 
consult on possible alternative funding models if necessary. In addition to the centrally 
submitted EUREKA Project Application Form, Swiss partners need to submit a formal 
Innosuisse 
(former 
CTI) 
project 
application 
online 
https://www.innosuisse.ch/inno/en/home/start-your-innovation-
project/innovationsprojekte.html . We invite you to contact us for a pre-check of your 
application before submission, please inform us in advance if you are interested in 
such a consultation 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
7. Contacts for details: 
 
 
IN BRAZIL 
 
FINEP 
Julio Cesar Imenes de Medeiros 
Av. República do Chile, 330, Torre 
Oeste – Centro - 17º andar 
CEP: 20031-170 - Rio de Janeiro – RJ 
Phone: +55 21.2555-0 
 
E-mail: internacional@finep.gov.br, with 
subject “EUREKA Brasil” 
 
EMBRAPII: 
 
Denise de M. Neddermeyer 
Embrapii - Empresa Brasileira de 
Pesquisa  
e Inovação Industrial 
SBN, Quadra 1, Bloco I, 14º andar 
Ed. Armando Monteiro Neto 
Brasília, DF 
70.040-913 
Tel.: (61) 3772-1020 
assessoria@embrapii.org.br  
 
FAPESP: 
Patricia Tedeschi 
Rua Pio XI 1500, Alto da Lapa 
05468-901, São Paulo-SP, Brazil 
www.fapesp.br/en  
Phone: +55.11.3838.4224 
Fax: +55.11.3838.4111 
E-mail: chamada-globalstars@fapesp.br  
 
 
 
 
 
IN EUREKA COUNTRIES  
 
Austria 
 
Irina Slosar 
FFG Austrian Research Promotion 
Agency  
EUREKA / European and International 
Programmes  
Sensengasse 1  
A-1090 Vienna 
Tel.: phone: +43 (0) 57755 – 4901 
Email: irina.slosar@ffg.at  
 
Spain 
 
Javier Romero Ruiz 
Department of Foreign Technology 
Action. 
GENERAL DIRECTORATE. 
Centro para el Desarrollo  Tecnológico e 
Industrial, E.P.E. (CDTI) 
C/ Cid, 4. 28001 Madrid 
Tfno: +34 91 581 56 07 
e-mail: josejavier.romero@cdti.es 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
In Belgium: 
Geert Thorrez 
Adviseur  
AGENTSCHAP INNOVEREN & 
ONDERNEMEN 
M +320473 25 01 68 
Geert.thorrez@vlaio.be 
Koning Albert II-laan 35 bus 12, 1030 
Brussel 
 
France  
Mael MBAYE 
Bpifrance 
Project Manager - International 
Innovation Programmes 
DIRECTION DU DEVELOPPEMENT 
ET SUPPORT INNOVATION 
Phone. : 0153897874 - Mob. : 
0689308791 
6-8, boulevard Haussmann  - 
75009 Paris 
Email: mael.mbaye@bpifrance.fr  
 
Germany 
Juliane Kuttenkeuler (EUREKA Bureau) 
Tel: +49 228 38211335 
Email: Juliane.Kuttenkeuler@dlr.de 
 
Matthias Frattini (International Bureau, 
unit North, Middle and South America) 
Tel.: +49-228-3821 1434 
Email: Matthias.Frattini@dlr.de  
 
Project Management Agency at German 
Aerospace Center 
Division “European and International 
Cooperation” 
EUREKA Bureau 
 
  
The Netherlands 
Arnold Meijer 
EUREKA Coordinator – International 
Innovation  
Phone: +31 88 0422582 
Prinses Beatrixlaan 2, 2595 AL Den 
Haag 
Arnold.meijer@rvo.nl  
Netherlands Enterprise Agency 
(RVO.nl) 
 
Switzerland 
 
Friederike Rass 
Federal Department of Economic 
Affairs, Education and Research EAER 
State Secretariat for Education, 
Research and Innovation SERI 
International Cooperation in Research 
and Innovation 
Einsteinstrasse 2, CH-3003 Bern 
Phone: +41 58 460 58 93 
Email: friederike-
dorothea.rass@sbfi.admin.ch 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    www.finep.gov.br 
 
Rio de Janeiro 
Ventura Corporate Towers 
Av. República do Chile, 330  
Torre Oeste – 10º-12º e  
15º-17º andares – Centro   
20031-170 – Rio de Janeiro – RJ 
t. (21) 2555 0330 
São Paulo 
JK Financial Center  
Av. Presidente Juscelino 
Kubitschek, 510 - 9º Andar  
Itaim Bibi  
04543-000 – São Paulo – SP  
t. (11) 3847 0300 
Fortaleza  
Av. Dom Luis, 807 
20º e 21º andares 
Meireles  
60160-230 – Fortaleza – CE 
t. (21) 97181 7035 
SAC :: (21) 2555 0555 :: sac@finep.gov.br || Ouvidoria :: (21) 2557 2414 :: ouvidoria@finep.gov.br 
Brasília 
Ed. Santos Dumont  
SHIS, QI 1 - Conjunto B  
Bloco D - 1º Subsolo 
Lago Sul   
71605-190 – Brasília – DF 
t. (61) 3035 7150 
Florianópolis  
Parque Tec Alfa – Ed. Celta  
Rod. José Carlos Dauh, 600  
(SC - 401 - Km 01) - João Paulo   
88030-000 – Florianópolis – SC 
t. (21) 99560 3119 
Belém 
Avenida Perimetral da Ciência 
Km 01 – Guamá  
Unidade 305 
Espaço Empreendedor do PCT  
66055-110 – Belém – PA  
t. (91) 98415 6704 
 
 
 
Eureka Global Stars 2018 
 
 
 
 
Instruções para encaminhamento das propostas detalhadas e prorrogação 
do prazo para envio: 
 
1. As propostas deverão ser enviados ao correio eletrônico 
globalstars2018@finep.gov.br 
 
2. Deverão ser anexados à mensagem de encaminhamento: 
a. o formulário disponível na página da chamada; 
b. cópia digitalizada do(s) estatuto(s) social(is) da(s) empresa(s) 
brasileira(s) que executarão o projeto. 
 
3. As propostas devem ser enviadas até o dia 01/02/2019. 
  
Convite para apresentação de proposta nacional 
Globalstars Brazil 2018  
Rede Eureka! 
 
Após avaliação dos formulários de projetos encaminhados à Rede Eureka, no âmbito da 
Chamada Globalstars 2018, as propostas listadas abaixo foram consideradas elegíveis para 
apresentação de propostas à Finep e as empresas brasileiras participantes dos consórcios são 
convidadas a fazê-lo. 
 
Acrônimo 
Organizações Brasileiras 
Organizações Europeias 
SystemForAteendance 
Supportware Desenvolvimento 
e Informática  
Medx eHealthCenter 
SYM-BRA 
SpaceTime Labs   
VanderSat B.V. 
InvenIOT 
Palma Comercio de Sistemas e 
Componentes Ltda 
Goo Apps 
MIG Welding Process  
Aluminitech Comércio e 
Serviços LTDA 
Fronius International GmbH 
Mining Benefication  
Milplan Engenharia S/A 
Primetals Technologies Austria GmbH  
WindUpMobSkyDive 
Dýnamis Comércio e Serviços 
Ltda. 
ENGIE Electroproject B.V. 
OTP3 
EJR Serviços Combinados Ltda. 
Geurdes Data Science 
EpIPhANY 
MAGNAMED TECNOLOGIA 
MEDICA S/A 
DEMCON Macawi Respiratory Systems 
B.V. 
DEMCON Advanced Mechatronics B.V. 
WasteGoGreen 
ORIENTA ENERGIAS 
ALTERNATIVAS LTDA 
SimTech GmbH 
AEROMOVEL APM 
AEROMOVEL BRASIL S.A. 
Siemens Aktiengesellschaft 
Oesterreich 
  
RE4BIOPLAST 
INBRASFAMA LTDA Industria 
Brasileira 
TECNARO GmbH 
Citri Agroindustrial S/A 
University of Stuttgart 
SPIRIT-FLY 
Altec Inductria de Componente 
em Materials C 
TenCate Advanced Composites B.V. 
P.I.C.O.E.S.L. 
PLANTUS INDUSTRIA E 
COMÉRCIO DE ÓLEOS  
Plantus E GmbH 
Bela por Natureza Com. e 
Manip. de Cosméticos 
  
MCR 
Kunumi Servicos Em 
Tecnologica da Informacao 
De Praktijk Index BV 
TROPIGATE 
Arquea Biomass Energy 
LM Sistemas e Montagens 
Especiais LTDA 
Hovyu B.V. 
TreeSAR 
PROSA Consultoria e Projetos 
Socioambientais 
SarVision BV 
Wageningen University 
UrbanEasy 
SUPERQUADRAS 3FS CIDADE 
ARQUITET. LTDA 
Robotic Eyes GmbH  
REACH Innovation; DI. Dr. F.C.Canazaro 
Dargam  
DDarwin 
Probes:Pesquisa, Inovação e 
Desenvolvimento  
RiverD International B.V. 
BTTF 
Cótica Engenharia e 
Construções 
Filox BV 
Sustainable Terminal 
Intecso - Soluções e Inovações 
em Agronegócio 
Graneles Switzerland S.A 
E-Brazil 
Healthfy 
Spectator Video Technology Holding 
B.V. 
ReEnergy 
OWG - Organic Waste Energy 
and Gas Ltda 
Müller Abfallprojekte GmbH 
PAM membranas 
Lab. Processos com Membranas 
MaSBI 
Greenant do Brasil Sistemas de 
Informação LTD 
Mirope Innovations BV 
Tax Intelligence 
International Business Venture 
BV 
Neki IT 
EAGLE M 
Alliage S/A Indústrias Médico 
Odontológica 
Gpixel NV 
  
Cerebellum 
Sistemas Roboticos Inteligentes 
LDTA (“Human  
Skyborn Research 
PHOENIX 
KRYPTUS Segurança da 
Informação S/A 
MOLLITIAM INDUSTRIES SL 
4C 
BYNE (SIMB Technologia Ltda) 
Quobis Networks S.L.U. 
CMDW 
EasyThings Serviços em 
Tecnologia Ltda 
Spark design & innovation BV 
ETDCClosedCaption 
EITV Comercio de 
Equipamentos de Informatica 
DoCaption S.A.R.L. 
Trubr 
Trubr Technology LTDA 
Procivis - AG 
SUSTAIL 
Geoforma Engenhaira Ltda 
Zentrum Geotechnik 
FUGRO Brazil 
Keller Holding GmbH 
Yamana Gold 
ESS Engineering Software Steyr GmbH 
PPGEC Graduation Course on 
Civil Engineering 
Institute of Geotechnical Engineering 
Keller Tecnogeo Fundacoes Ltda 
FUGRO NL Land BV 
VALE SA 
  
 
O formulário de apresentação de propostas será disponibilizado em breve e ficará aberto até 
25 de janeiro. 
As respostas negativas foram ou serão encaminhadas pela rede Eureka.  
 Perguntas Frequentes – Chamada EUREKA Globalstars 
 
1 – Existe um número máximo de empresas participantes? 
R. Não. A obrigatoriedade é que ao menos uma empresa seja brasileira e a outra empresa 
estrangeira, de país participante do edital (Áustria, Alemanha, Bélgica, Espanha, França, Holanda 
e Suíça), desde que não pertençam a mesmo grupo econômico. 
 
2 – Quais são as áreas/setores apoiados pela chamada? 
R. Todas as áreas e setores são contemplados pela chamada, contanto que o projeto seja 
inovador e envolva risco tecnológico para todas as partes. 
Não são passíveis de apoio, com recursos deste Edital, projetos de tropicalização e/ou 
internalização de tecnologias já desenvolvidas no exterior pelas matrizes e/ou controladoras de 
empresas líderes instaladas no Brasil. 
 
3 – O que fazer para me candidatar à chamada? 
R. Primeiramente a empresa deverá encontrar uma ou mais empresas europeias de países 
participantes do Edital. Uma plataforma de matchmaking está disponível em https://globalstars-
brazil.b2match.io/home. 
Uma vez encontrado os parceiros, todos deverão preencher o formulário de candidatura 
EUREKA, disponível no endereço eletrônico http://www.eurekanetwork.org/eureka-project-
application-form, no idioma inglês. 
O formulário será analisado por um painel internacional que ranqueará as propostas. No caso 
do Brasil, será avaliado ainda qual a instituição brasileira melhor indicada para o financiamento 
do projeto (Finep, FAPESP ou EMBRAPII). 
Após a divulgação do resultado desta etapa, as empresas brasileiras deverão encaminhar o 
projeto completo à instituição financiadora, seguindo as regras, formulários e legislações 
próprias. 
 
4 – Qual o apoio financeiro dado pela Finep? 
R. Subvenção econômica e crédito. Para subvenção econômica, o valor mínimo de concessão é 
de 100.000,00 de Euros e o máximo é de 1.000.000,00 de Euros. 
Para o crédito não há valores mínimos e máximos de financiamento e seu regulamento pode ser 
consultado 
na 
página 
da 
Finep: 
http://www.finep.gov.br/apoio-e-financiamento-
externa/instrumentos-de-apoio/financiamento-reembolsavel 
 
 
 5 – A Finep financiará 100% do projeto? 
R. A Finep financiará somente a parte solicitada pelo lado brasileiro. 
A participação da Finep em subvenção econômica, conforme o tamanho da empresa brasileira, 
será de: 
- até 80% dos custos elegíveis para as pequenas empresas; 
- até 60% dos custos elegíveis para as médias empresas;  
- até 40% dos custos elegíveis para as grandes empresas. 
A diferença deverá ser alocada pela empresa ou grupo de empresas responsável pelo projeto 
selecionado, como contrapartida mínima obrigatória, totalizando o valor solicitado à Finep. 
A empresa brasileira que receber recursos de subvenção econômica deverá desenvolver a parte 
do projeto que lhe compete em território nacional. 
A empresa poderá também solicitar empréstimo à Finep, conforme as suas condições 
operacionais. 
 
6-  É possível o financiamento da contrapartida pela Finep? 
R. Sim, a contrapartida financeira das empresas candidatas ao edital poderá ser objeto de 
solicitação de financiamento reembolsável, de acordo com as condições operacionais definidas 
pela Finep.  
Caso seja aprovada, a operação de financiamento reembolsável para cobertura da contrapartida 
financeira será contratada simultaneamente ao projeto aprovado no Programa de Subvenção 
Econômica.  
 
7 – Despesas realizadas antes do início do projeto serão aceitas pela Finep? 
R. A Finep somente reconhecerá as despesas efetuadas com recursos subvencionados a partir 
da data de assinatura do contrato. Em relação aos recursos de contrapartida, a Finep 
reconhecerá as despesas efetuadas a partir da divulgação do resultado final da Seleção Pública. 
 
8 – Quais são os critérios de avaliação para o apoio dos projetos submetidos à Finep? 
A avaliação dos projetos seguirá a metodologia de avalição de projetos da rede Eureka:  
http://www.eurekanetwork.org/content/project-assessment-methodology.  
 
 
 
 
 
 9 – É necessário haver acordo de propriedade intelectual? 
R. Sim. Os parceiros do projeto devem acordar antecipadamente sobre os direitos de 
propriedade intelectual e sobre a estratégia de comercialização para o resultado do projeto (é 
necessário um protocolo de intenções a ser apresentado quando do encaminhamento da 
proposta nacional e a formalização deste Termo de Acordo que deverá ser apresentada pela 
empresa brasileira aprovada, no momento da contratação na Finep). O Termo de Acordo, 
assinado por todos os participantes, deverá conter também as obrigações das empresas 
parceiras, o país onde será desenvolvido o projeto, a participação de cada empresa no custo 
total do projeto, se haverá a participação de organizações de outros países no projeto e quais 
as obrigações assumidas por tais organizações, as sanções aplicáveis no caso de inadimplemento 
e o foro eleito para dirimir controvérsias. 
 
10 - Qual o prazo de execução do projeto? 
R. O projeto poderá ser executado em até 36 meses. 
 
11 -  Quais são os itens financiáveis pela Finep? 
R. Os itens financiáveis pela Finep devem ser enquadrados nos seguintes elementos de despesa:  
• Vencimentos e Vantagens Fixas e Obrigações Patronais – pessoal próprio com vínculo 
trabalhista de acordo com as regras da Consolidação das Leis do Trabalho – CLT, alocado na 
proposta em atividades de pesquisa, desenvolvimento e inovação (P,D&I);  
• Serviços de Terceiros – Pessoa Física ou Jurídica – para realização de serviços específicos 
necessários à execução do projeto;  
• Material de Consumo;  
• Diárias – exclusivamente para a equipe executora, em atividades relacionadas ao projeto;  
• Passagens e Despesas com Locomoção – exclusivamente para a equipe executora, em 
atividades relacionadas ao projeto.  
• Obras e instalações exclusivamente relacionadas ao projeto e justificadas; e  
• Equipamentos e materiais permanentes relacionados ao projeto e justificados;  
As despesas com investimentos de capital não podem ultrapassar 20% do valor subvencionado 
pela Finep. 
 
12 – A análise da Finep levará em conta somente o projeto submetido? 
R. Não. A empresa também será analisada Jurídica e Econômico Financeiramente. 
Durante a etapa de Seleção das propostas serão realizadas as Análises Jurídica e Econômico-
Financeira, as quais poderão ter os seguintes posicionamentos: recomendar a aprovação, 
recomendar a aprovação com condicionantes à contratação e/ou liberação ou não recomendar 
a aprovação. Estas análises levarão em consideração as normas internas e a legislação aplicáveis. 
 3 – Qual o cronograma de seleção do edital? 
 
Calendário 
Lançamento da chamada 
03 de junho de 2018 
Data limite para apresentação de 
propostas 
31 de outubro de 2018  
Comunicação de enquadramento e 
solicitação de submissão de 
proposta nacional 
19 de novembro de 2018 
Painel internacional para consenso 
entre as agências nacionais e rede 
Eureka 
1º de abril de 2019   
Decisão de financiamento  
Até 31 de agosto de 2019 
 
14 – Como será feita a prestação de contas do projeto selecionado? 
R. O coordenador nacional do projeto deve apresentar relatórios de progresso do projeto 
semestralmente. Para estar apto a receber as liberações seguintes por parte da Finep, é preciso 
também apresentar relatórios financeiros do projeto. Esses detalhes serão definidos no contrato 
com a Finep caso o projeto seja selecionado para receber subvenção. 
  
 
Chamada Global Stars Brazil 2018 
Seleção pública de projetos cooperativos entre empresas brasileiras e de países integrantes da 
Rede Eureka. 
 
Resultado Final: 
 
Foram selecionados os seguintes projetos pela Finep e pelas instituições de apoio a inovação 
parceiras: 
 
Projeto 
Empresa Brasileira 
Empresa Europeia 
País 
Parceiro 
Valor 
limitado a 
(€ milhares) 
SPIRIT-FLY 
Altec Inductria de 
Componente em Materials C 
TenCate Advanced 
Composites B.V. 
Holanda 
113 
SYM-BRA 
SpaceTime Labs   
VanderSat B.V. 
Holanda 
1000 
BTTF 
Cótica Engenharia e 
Construções 
Filox BV 
Holanda 
211 
PHOENIX 
KRYPTUS Segurança da 
Informação S/A 
MOLLITIAM 
INDUSTRIES SL 
Espanha 
536 
Sustainable 
Terminal 
Intecso - Soluções e 
Inovações em Agronegócio 
Graneles Switzerland 
S.A 
Suiça 
751 
 
As empresas que tiveram seus projetos selecionados serão convocadas a apresentar 
documentação para análise jurídica de crédito e operacional. 
