1 
 
                 
                      
 
 
CALL 
FOR 
PROMOTION 
OF 
RESEARCHER 
CONNECT 
TRAINING 
COURSES 
FOR                                   
COMMUNICATION SKILLS IN 17 BRAZILIAN STATES 
 
 
1. Overview 
This call aims at selecting higher education institutions in 17 Brazilian states to host a series of face-to-face courses for 
the development of professional communication skills for researchers under the Researcher Connect programme to 
take place in Brazil from July 1st 2015 to March 1st 2016. Each applicant should propose a three-day course to take 
place at their home institution, according to the calendar described at item 6. Each institution can host one single 
course per year. If there is only one eligible proposal for a give state, two courses per campus may be allowed. 
2. About the programme  
Researcher Connect – Communication skills for researchers – consists of a series of short interactive modules for 
researchers from any academic discipline. It focuses on the development of excellent communication skills to be used 
in international, multi-cultural contexts. Courses are three-day long, and will be hosted at the institution of the 
selected proposals.  
This edition of Researcher Connect is offered under the Newton Fund Professional Development and Engagement 
Programme, and is jointly funded by each of the signatory Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (FAPs) 
members of CONFAP, who have signed up for this Call. The Newton Fund aims at building UK-Partner country research 
and innovation collaborations centred on these shared research and innovation challenges which have direct 
relevance to the Brazil’s social welfare and economic development. 
In this call, 17 FAPs will select “Course Coordinators”, as representatives from the Pró-Reitorias de Pesquisa, Pró-
Reitorias de Pós-Graduação, Departments and postgraduate programmes as eligible applicants, to take an edition of 
the Researcher Connect course to her or his home institution. 
3. Objectives  
This element of Researcher Connect is designed to provide financial support to courses which can improve the 
capacity building of researchers nation-wide. The states that are going to benefit from this call correspond to the list 
of FAPs listed in the calendar table below.  
 
Research and innovation are essential for building strong and prosperous economies - talented researchers who can 
communicate their work on various levels are one of the vital ingredients for this. At the level of the individual 
academic researcher, the need to publish research findings is paramount. Only when peer-reviewed and validated by 
the research community can research truly be considered to be contributing to the body of knowledge. 
There is also a need to communicate research findings beyond the immediate academic community in order to 
capture the benefit from research and to justify the use of public funds to support research activity. Improving the 
communication skills of researchers can have a beneficial effect not just on the individual researcher’s performance 
and career, but also on the institution that they work for and the wider society as a whole, through increasing the 
reach and impact of their research. This is the driver behind the development of the Researcher Connect training 
courses. 
All Researcher Connect courses will have the following overarching objectives: 
 
Contribute to capacity building of Brazilian researchers – Proposals should include a description of how the 
courses will contribute to the personal and professional development of the participants and argue how 
such development, especially in campuses of the North and Northeast, or in specific research areas, 
contribute to social development in Brazil.  Hosting Institutions should indicate how they envisage this 
occurring, including any plans for publication and improvement of internationalisation of the institution or 
department and for securing diversity within the group that will actually participate in the course.  
 2 
 
 
Support international development-relevant research – To raise capacity of researchers to take locally 
produced knowledge overseas. According to Thompson and Reuters, Brazil has an academic impact lower 
than the world average and well below other BRICs countries. In this context, Researcher Connect can 
greatly contribute to include Brazilian researchers and their work in the international academic scene, thus 
supporting the economic development and welfare in Brazil by communicating new knowledge developed 
locally to international audiences. In addition, by identifying science clusters in less developed Brazilian 
States, the programme will also help to contribute to raise capacity of academic communities with very little 
opportunities to develop researchers and to internationalize. These goals are particularly relevant to North, 
Northeastern and Center-western states.  
4. How to apply  
 
Each applicant will submit one proposal per institution to host one workshop to train 20 researchers in any 
discipline/multidisciplinary area. The selection process will focus on developing communication skills of researchers 
working on areas relevant to economic development and social welfare, including from the natural sciences, social 
sciences, arts and humanities. Each FAP, coordinated by CONFAP, and the British Council will co-fund the courses.  
 
Applicants must submit a completed online application form. The application form requires researchers to briefly 
explain how their research connect to social and economic development goals and how it relates to the benefit of 
vulnerable 
populations. 
This 
can 
be 
found 
on 
the 
British 
Council 
Researcher 
Connect 
http://britishcouncilbrasil.rc2015-application.sgizmo.com/s3/. This application form must be completed online – email 
submissions will not be accepted. The online form allows applicants to enter information and save it for a later date 
until final submission. There are strict character limits for each section which cannot be exceeded. Any problems with 
the online submission, please, contact centro.info@britishcouncil.org.br  
Prior to submission, applicants must obtain permission to submit the application on behalf of their institutions. 
Before the completed online application form can be submitted to the system, applicants will be asked to confirm the 
above in the online form. 
Once the online application is submitted, applicants will receive a confirmation email containing the application ID 
number. This reference number should be used in all communications with the British Council. Applicants who have 
not received an automated email confirmation should contact the British Council at centro.info@britishcouncil.org.br. 
4.1 Applicants from the state of 
São Paulo must also follow FAPESP guidelines, as stated at 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/9451  
 
5. Who can apply  
A full-time researcher or professor, indicated as a representatives from the Pró-Reitorias de Pesquisa, Pró-Reitorias de 
Pós-Graduação, Departments and postgraduate programmes, from a higher education or research institution in one 
of the Brazilian states where the FAPs listed below is welcome to send in an application to propose a venue to Host 
the course using the application forms in Item 4. The applicant will be referred to as “Course Coordinator”. 
  
6. Calendar of courses 
 
Applicants associated to the following FAPs and available to coordinate the course in the respective months can apply.  
 
State  
FAP 
Number of courses (each 
campus will be awarded 
one RC edition; in the case 
of one single applicant per 
State, one campus can 
receive two editions) 
Month 
Alagoas 
FAPEAL 
1 
September or October 
Amapá 
FAPEAP 
1 
August  
Amazonas 
FAPEAM 
2 
November 
and 
February/2016 
 3 
 
Ceará 
FUNCAP 
1 
October 
Distrito Federal 
FAPDF 
2 
August 
Espírito Santo 
FAPES 
2 
September 
and 
November 
Goiás 
FAPEG 
2 
September 
and 
October  
Mato Grosso do Sul 
FUNDECT 
1 
September 
or 
November 
Minas Gerais 
FAPEMIG 
2 
October and November 
Paraíba 
FAPESQ 
2 
November 
Paraná 
FUNDAÇÃO ARAUCÁRIA 
3 
August and September 
Pernambuco 
FACEPE 
1 
November 
Rio de Janeiro 
FAPERJ 
1 
September 
Rio Grande do Norte 
FAPERN 
2 
December 
Santa Catarina 
FAPESC 
1 
September 
São Paulo 
FAPESP 
3 
August, September and 
February/2016 
Sergipe 
FAPITEC 
1 
October 
 
7.  Delivery of the course 
All courses must take place before March 2016.  
  
8. Who will take part in the courses? 
Up to 20 researchers can take part in each Course.  
 
9. Role of the Course Coordinators 
Course Coordinators will send in an application to host a Researcher Connect edition in their institution. Course 
Coordinators will have to choose Course Type 1 or 2 (regarding content and duration).  
In addition, Course Coordinators will be responsible for: 
A. coordination of the logistics and execution of funds; 
B. selection of participants with the support of the British Council and observing Newton Fund guidelines; 
C. maintain and share with the British Council all materials related to the recruitment process of candidates, such as a 
copy of the call, the number of applicants and their CVs 
D. responsible for Monitoring and Evaluation (making sure all the participants fill in evaluation reports and reporting 
on any further developments); 
 
10. Language 
Courses will be held in English.  
  
11. Course Options   
Course coordinators will decide on the content, according to the following options: 
 
Type 1 (3 Day Workshop):   
1. Foundation  
2. Writing for Publications Basic  
3. Abstracts  
4. Better Presentations  
 
Type 2 (3 Day Workshop):  FOR GROUPS WITH B2 ENGLISH LEVEL OR HIGHER 
1. Foundation  
2. Writing for Publications Basic  
3. Getting Published  
4. Academic collaboration  
 
 4 
 
12. Organisation of the course 
Institutions selected in this call are responsible for planning and organising the course. The British Council has 
guidelines to support the organization of the course.  
 
13. Recruitment of participants 
After the selection process, successful Course Coordinators will be responsible for recruiting participants to attend the 
Courses under the guidance of a British Council project manager. The composition of the group is crucial for the 
success of the course.   
 
Eligibility criteria:  
13.1. There must be an open call for participants, and this must be disseminated through various defined channels in 
the institution. Coordinators are encouraged to identify and employ additional avenues of communication so that the 
courses are advertised as widely as possible.  
13.2. Researchers recruited to participate in the course must be, preferably, a PhD or post-doc student or professor at 
any career stage.   
13.3. Participants will need to demonstrate a sufficient standard of English to participate in the courses. Researcher 
Connect is recommendable for B2 (Upper Intermediate) English Speakers and above1, and will enable learners to 
communicate their research effectively with a range of audiences in appropriate academic and/or professional styles. 
B1 (intermediate) students may be accepted, depending on the local context and on the overall level of the group 
selected.  
13.4. While recognising that some research fields are dominated by one particular gender, course coordinators are 
encouraged to work towards as equal a gender balance as is possible, promote diversity, and ensure that no 
applicants are excluded from participation on the basis of ethnicity, gender, religious belief, sexual orientation, or 
disability. 
  
14. Outputs and longer term benefit 
Coordinators should outline the specific outputs planned from the course. They should also explore any potential 
longer-term benefit that might arise, thinking about who might benefit and how they might benefit, describing the 
actions that will be taken to ensure that potential impact is realised. 
  
15. Selection Process 
There will be a two-step selection process by:  
a. The British Council will receive the proposals and will send them to the respective FAP 
b. Each FAP will host a review panel and will be making a final decision on whom and how many proposals 
will be awarded the grant, according to their own rules for evaluating the scientific merit of the proposals.   
 
Successful applicants will be notified from two weeks to eight weeks after the call deadline, depending on the state 
that the proposal was sent to. 
 
16. Duration of the courses 
The duration of a course is 3 days according to the calendar above.  
17. Funding 
The costs of the Course will be covered by the Newton Fund and the partnering FAP.  
Funding offered under the Researcher Connect programme is intended as a contribution towards the costs of the 
Courses. Course coordinators are expected to add a contribution in-kind towards the overall cost of the course by 
dedicating their time to the planning and delivery of the courses. The host university must deploy a member of its staff 
to support on logistics, printing, set up of rooms, etc during the three days of the event.  University staff costs and 
honoraria cannot be covered by the Newton Fund grants. 
The maximum number of participants per course is 20. This must reflect in the budget request, following the 
guidelines below. 
                                                           
1 http://www.examenglish.com/CEFR/cefr.php 
 5 
 
17.1 Budget  
Each FAP will pay an amount of up to R$ 12.500,00 (twelve thousand and five hundred reais) per course. The Newton 
Fund will cover all the trainers´ fees. In addition, the Newton Fund will pay an amount of R$ 6.500,00 (six thousand 
and five hundred reais) primarily related to the trainers travel costs. 
A budget need to be submitted by the workshop coordinator and should include the following items: 
a. Eligible items for BC funding: 
Logistics, fee costs associated with the trainers and with the participation of  the British Council staff, stationary, 
among other costs that may not be funded by the FAPs and can be purchased directly by the British Council.  
b. Eligible items for FAPs funding:  
Each FAP will adopt the list of items it usually funds. Check the list by accessing the respective web page of the FAP to 
which the application will be submitted.  
 
18. Reporting 
18.1 BC reporting and Monitoring and Evaluation  
Course coordinators are requested to submit a final report within 30 days after the course finishes. The final report 
template will be sent to successful applicants and will include a narrative part along with a section requesting 
information on the course participants. In addition, the Course Coordinator should report according to each FAP´s 
requirements.  
As stated in Item 9 above, it is part of the responsibilities of the Course Coordinator to make sure that all Course 
participants will answer to the British Council Researcher Connect questionnaires. Answers can be collected either on 
paper or online.  
18.2 FAPs reporting 
Each participant FAP will adopt its usual specific report for such type of funding modality. 
19. Call deadline 
The submission deadline is 23:59 on June 16th 2015 (Brasilia time). Proposals submitted after the deadline will not be 
considered for funding. 
20. Data protection 
As part of the online application form, the British Council will ask applicants’ permission to: 
 
Use the information provided in the application for processing the application, making any consequential 
award, for the award payment, monitoring, maintenance and review of the award. In some cases information 
will be shared with national programme partners for the purpose of selection and monitoring of the award. 
 
Make information on the successful applications available to the public on their website and other publicity, 
and in reports and documents. 
 
Contact applicants in the future to inform them about future British Council opportunities. 
Under UK Data Protection laws applicants have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold on them, for 
which we may charge a fee, and the right to ask us to correct any inaccuracies in that information. More information 
on this is available on the British Council data protection webpage:  http://www.britishcouncil.org/home-data-
protection.htm.or alternatively can it be requested to the local British Council office or the Data Protection Team 
dataprotection@britishcouncil.org. 
 
 
 
 6 
 
Annex 1 – Eligibility criteria checklist 
 
 
The application has been submitted by the applicant by the published deadline 
 
The candidate demonstrated alignment with Official Development Assistance (ODA) criteria, related to 1) 
diversity among participants that will be taking the course, especially on the base of gender, race, economic 
class, sexual orientation or 2) relevance to research communities with low levels of internationalization or 3) 
knowledge areas that are underdeveloped or underfunded and have direct relevance to social development. 
 
The application has been submitted using the correct online application form 
 
The applicants have provided confirmation that the application is submitted on behalf of their institutions 
 
The application form is completed in full and complies with instructions given 
 
The application form has been completed in English 
 
Only one application per institution has been submitted in this round  
 
The course will take place between 01 July 2015 and 1 March 2016 
 
The course coordinators accept to organise the course and to sign a grant agreement with each FAP  
 
The institutions where the course coordinators are based are recognised publicly funded research 
establishments or Higher Education Institutions (can include private universities) 
 
For 
applicants 
from 
the 
state 
of 
Sao 
Paulo 
– 
in 
accordance 
with 
FAPESP 
guidelines, 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/9451 
 
 7 
 
Annex 2 – Quality criteria assessment form 
 
In addition to the academic merit criteria defined by each FAP to its respective funding modality, the quality assessment 
will be performed by panel members at the respective FAP, which will hold a review panel and make a final decision.  
Applications with an average score of less than 25 points are considered not fundable. Equally, only proposals which have 
clearly articulated relevance to international development will be considered for funding. 
 
 
 
Score 
 
Range 
 
Section 1 – Impact of Courses in Academic Community  
 
 
  0-20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 – Proposal detail and target audience  
 
 
  0-20 
 
 
 
 
Section 3 – Plan for further training of participants  and please identify the gaps that the 
programme will be able to address in the context of your university and how you believe 
you can monitor advancement in the short and medium terms (next 12 months)  
 
 
0-20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
TOTAL SCORE FOR QUALITY ASSESSEMENT 
(Section 1 + Section 2 + Section 3) 
 
 
0-60 
 
 
 
 
 
 1 
 
                 
                   
CHAMADA PARA PROMOÇÃO DE CURSOS DE CURTA DURAÇÃO PARA DESENVOLVIMENTO DE 
HABILIDADES EM COMUNICAÇÃO CIENTÍFICA – RESEARCHER CONNECT – EM 17 ESTADOS BRASILEIROS 
1. Visão geral 
Esta chamada tem por finalidade selecionar instituições de Ensino Superior em 17 Estados brasileiros para sediar uma 
série de cursos presenciais para o desenvolvimento de habilidades em comunicação científica para pesquisadores, sob 
o Programa Researcher Connect, a serem realizados no Brasil de 1° de julho de 2015 a 1º de março de 2016. Cada 
candidato (a) deverá propor um curso de 3 dias, a ser realizado em sua instituição, de acordo com o calendário do 
Item 6. Cada instituição pode sediar um único curso por ano. No caso de uma única instituição proponente para todo 
o Estado, dois cursos por campi poderão ser permitidos. 
 2. Sobre o programa 
Researcher Connect – habilidades em comunicação científica para pesquisadores – consiste em uma série de 
pequenos módulos interativos para pesquisadores de qualquer formação acadêmica. Seu foco é desenvolver 
excelentes habilidades em comunicação para que sejam utilizadas em contextos internacionais e multiculturais. Os 
cursos têm duração de 3 dias e serão realizados na instituição selecionada.  
Esta edição do Researcher Connect é oferecida pelo Newton Fund Professional Development & Engagement 
Programme e é cofinanciada por cada uma das Fundações Estaduais de Amparo à Pesquisa (FAPs), membros do 
CONFAP, que tenham aderido a esta Chamada de Propostas. O Newton Fund intenta construir, entre o Reino Unido e 
o país parceiro, colaborações em pesquisa e inovação que possuam relevância direta para o desenvolvimento social e 
econômico do Brasil. 
Nesta chamada, 17 FAPs selecionarão “coordenadores de curso” como representantes de Pró-Reitorias de Pesquisa, 
Pró-Reitorias de Pós-Graduação, Departamentos e programas de pós-graduação como candidatos elegíveis para 
realizar uma edição dos cursos do Researcher Connect em sua instituição.  
3. Objetivos 
O Researcher Connect é destinado a prover apoio financeiro para cursos que possam melhorar a capacitação de 
pesquisadores em escala nacional. Os Estados que se beneficiarão desta chamada correspondem à lista das FAPs 
mencionada no calendário abaixo.  
Pesquisa e inovação são essenciais para construir economias fortes e prósperas – pesquisadores (as) talentosos (as), 
aptos (as) a divulgar seus trabalhos em diferentes níveis, são de extrema importância para esse objetivo. Quando se 
trata de pesquisa acadêmica individual, a necessidade de publicar descobertas é fundamental: apenas quando 
revisada por colegas e validada pela comunidade científica, uma pesquisa pode ser verdadeiramente considerada para 
contribuir na construção de conhecimento. 
Existe, ainda, a necessidade de comunicar descobertas de pesquisa além da comunidade científica, de forma a utilizar 
seus resultados para justificar o uso de recursos públicos para financiamento de novas atividades de pesquisa. 
Melhorar as habilidades de comunicação de pesquisadores pode ter um efeito benéfico não apenas nas performances 
e carreiras individuais, mas também na instituição onde os trabalhos são desenvolvidos e na sociedade como um todo, 
através do aumento do alcance e do impacto de suas pesquisas. Este é o motor por trás do desenvolvimento dos 
cursos do Researcher Connect. 
Assim, todos os cursos do Researcher Connect terão os seguintes objetivos: 
 
Contribuir para capacitação de pesquisadores (as) brasileiros (as) – as propostas devem incluir uma 
descrição de como os cursos contribuirão para o desenvolvimento pessoal e profissional dos participantes e 
uma argumentação de como o desenvolvimento de pesquisadores, especialmente em campi dos estados do 
Norte e Nordeste, ou em áreas específicas do conhecimento, pode contribuir para o desenvolvimento social 
 2 
 
no Brasil. Instituições agraciadas deverão indicar como elas pretendem materializar esse objetivo , incluindo 
quaisquer planos para publicação e melhora da internacionalização da instituição ou departamento, bem 
como  para assegurar a diversidade no corpo de alunos do curso. 
 
Apoio internacional à pesquisa relevante ao desenvolvimento – aumentar a capacidade de pesquisadores 
projetarem suas pesquisas locais em uma escala global. De acordo com Thomson e Reuters1, o impacto 
acadêmico brasileiro é menor do que a média mundial e está abaixo dos outros países dos BRICs. Neste 
contexto, o Researcher Connect pode contribuir de maneira significativa para incluir pesquisadores 
brasileiros e seus trabalhos no cenário acadêmico internacional apoiando o desenvolvimento econômico e 
social no Brasil ao divulgar novos conhecimentos e descobertas para o público internacional. Ademais, ao 
identificar clusters científicos em diferentes Estados, o programa também contribuirá para aumentar a 
capacidade de comunidades acadêmicas com poucas ou escassas oportunidades a desenvolver 
pesquisadores e se internacionalizar. Esses objetivos são especialmente relevantes para os Estados das 
regiões Norte, Nordeste e Centro-Oeste. 
4. Como participar 
Cada candidato submeterá uma proposta por instituição para que esta sedie um curso para treinar 20 pesquisadores 
em qualquer disciplina ou área multidisciplinar. O processo de seleção focará no desenvolvimento de habilidades em 
comunicação em áreas relevantes ao desenvolvimento econômico e social incluindo Ciências Naturais, Ciências 
Sociais, Artes e Humanidades. Cada FAP, coordenada pelo CONFAP, e o British Council cofinanciarão os cursos. 
Candidatos devem submeter o formulário online de inscrição completo em inglês. O formulário requer uma breve 
explicação dos pesquisadores de como sua pesquisa relaciona os objetivos de desenvolvimento econômico e social em 
benefícios convertidos a populações vulneráveis. O formulário está disponível em: http://britishcouncilbrasil.rc2015-
application.sgizmo.com/s3/   e  deve ser preenchido online – submissões via e-mail não serão aceitas. Existem limites 
estritos de caracteres para cada sessão que não podem ser excedidos. Quaisquer problemas com o formulário online, 
por favor, entre em contato com centro.info@britishcouncil.org.br. 
Antes da submissão, os candidatos devem obter permissão para submeter propostas em nome de suas instituições. 
Antes que o formulário online seja submetido ao sistema, candidatos serão solicitados a confirmar o referido acima no 
formulário online. 
Uma vez submetida à inscrição, os candidatos receberão uma confirmação via e-mail contendo o número de 
identificação, o qual deverá ser usado em todas as comunicações com o British Council. Candidatos que não 
receberem uma confirmação automática via e-mail deverão contatar o British Council através de 
centro.info@britishcouncil.org.br. 
4.1 Candidatos do Estado de São Paulo devem ainda seguir as diretrizes da FAPESP disponíveis em 
http://www.fapesp.br/en/9451 
5. Sobre os candidatos  
 
Um(a) pesquisador(a) ou professor(a), representantes de Pró-Reitorias de Pesquisa, Pró-Reitorias de Pós-Graduação, 
Departamentos ou programas de Pós-Graduação de uma instituição de pesquisa ou de ensino superior nos Estados 
brasileiros onde as FAPs listadas executam suas atividades são convidados a enviar uma inscrição para propor um 
local para sediar o curso, usando o formulário de inscrição descrito no Item 4. O(a) candidato(a) será endereçado 
como “coordenador de curso”. 
6. Calendário dos cursos 
Candidatos associados às seguintes FAPs e disponíveis para coordenar o curso nos respectivos meses podem 
submeter propostas. 
 
                                                           
1 http://sciencewatch.com/articles/national-rankings-output-sciences-and-social-sciences-1999-2008 
 3 
 
Estado  
FAPs 
Número de cursos (cada 
campus pode receber uma 
edição do RC; no caso de 
proposta única, um 
campus pode receber duas 
edições) 
Mês 
Alagoas 
FAPEAL 
1 
Setembro ou outubro 
Amapá 
FAPEAP 
1 
Agosto 
Amazonas 
FAPEAM 
2 
Novembro 
e 
fevereiro/2016 
Ceará 
FUNCAP 
1 
Outubro 
Distrito Federal 
FAPDF 
2 
Agosto 
Espírito Santo 
FAPES 
2 
Setembro e novembro  
Goiás 
FAPEG 
2 
Setembro e outubro 
Mato Grosso do Sul 
FUNDECT 
1 
Setembro ou novembro 
Minas Gerais 
FAPEMIG 
2 
Outubro e novembro 
Paraíba 
FAPESQ 
2 
Novembro 
Paraná 
FUNDAÇÃO ARAUCÁRIA 
3 
Agosto e setembro 
Pernambuco 
FACEPE 
1 
Novembro 
Rio de Janeiro 
FAPERJ 
1 
Setembro 
Rio Grande do Norte 
FAPERN 
2 
Dezembro 
Santa Catarina 
FAPESC 
1 
Setembro 
São Paulo 
FAPESP 
3 
Agosto, 
Setembro 
e 
fevereiro/2016 
Sergipe 
FAPITEC 
1 
Outubro/2015 
 
7. Realização dos cursos 
Todos os cursos devem acontecer entre 1º de julho de 2015 e 1º de março de 2016. 
8. Sobre os participantes dos cursos 
Até 20 pesquisadores podem participar em cada curso. 
9. Papel dos coordenadores de curso 
Os coordenadores de curso enviarão o formulário de inscrição online completo para sediar uma edição do Researcher 
Connect em sua instituição ou departamento e deverão escolher entre os Cursos 1 e 2 (levando em consideração 
conteúdo e duração). 
Ademais, coordenadores de curso serão responsáveis por: 
a) Coordenação da logística e implementação do fundo; 
b) Seleção dos participantes com o apoio do British Council e de acordo com as diretrizes do Newton Fund.  
c) Manter e compartilhar com o British Council todos os documentos relativos ao processo de seleção dos 
participantes, tais como a cópia do edital de seleção, número de candidatos e seus CVs. 
d) Monitoramento e Avaliação (assegurar que todos os participantes preencham os questionários de avaliação e 
relatórios de desenvolvimentos futuros). 
10. Idioma 
Os cursos serão ministrados em inglês. 
11. Opções de curso 
Coordenadores de curso decidirão quanto ao tipo de curso, de acordo com as seguintes opções: 
 4 
 
Tipo 1: 
1. Foundation 
2. Writing for Publications Basic  
3. Abstracts  
4. Better Presentations  
 
Tipo 2: (Apenas para participantes com conhecimento avançado em inglês - nível B2 ou superior) 
1. Foundation  
2. Writing for Publications Basic  
3. Getting Published  
4. Academic collaboration  
 
 
12. Organização do curso 
As instituições selecionadas nesta chamada serão responsáveis pelo planejamento e organização do curso, apoiados 
(as) pelas diretrizes do British Council. 
13. Processo de seleção de participantes 
Após o processo de seleção das instituições, os coordenadores de curso serão responsáveis pela seleção de 
participantes para assistir os cursos, sob a orientação de um Project Manager do British Council. A composição do 
grupo é essencial para o sucesso do curso. 
Critérios de elegibilidade: 
13.1. As chamadas para os participantes deverão ser abertas e divulgadas através de vários canais na instituição. 
Coordenadores são encorajados a identificar e empregar canais alternativos de comunicação para o sucesso do curso. 
13.2. Pesquisadores recrutados para participar do curso deverão ser, preferencialmente, estudantes de PhD, post-doc 
ou professores em início de carreira.  
13.3. Participantes deverão demonstrar padrão suficiente de inglês para participar dos cursos. As edições do Research 
Connect são recomendadas para falantes de inglês de níveis B1 e B2 (Upper Intermediate) – de acordo com o quadro 
comum europeu2 - propiciando aos participantes divulgar sua pesquisa de forma eficiente para uma vasta audiência, 
de maneira profissional e acadêmica adequada. Contudo, a proficiência linguística pode variar de acordo com as 
necessidades de cada FAP, preservando os padrões de qualidade do British Council.  
13.4.  Dado que alguns campos de pesquisa são dominados por um gênero específico, coordenadores de curso são 
encorajados a trabalhar em um equilíbrio de gênero sempre que possível, a promover a diversidade e a assegurar que 
nenhum participante seja excluído de participar dos cursos por motivos étnicos, de gênero, crença religiosa, 
orientação sexual ou deficiência. 
14.Resultados e benefícios a longo prazo  
Coordenadores deverão destacar os resultados específicos planejados do curso. Deverão, também, explorar quaisquer 
benefícios de longo prazo que surgirem, levando em consideração possíveis beneficiários e como afetá-los e 
descrevendo as ações a serem tomadas para garantir que tal impacto potencial seja atingido. 
15.Processo de seleção dos candidatos: 
O processo de seleção ocorrerá em duas etapas: 
a. O British Council receberá as propostas e as enviará às respectivas FAPs 
b. Cada FAP sediará um painel de revisão e fará a decisão final acerca de quem e quais propostas 
receberão financiamento, segundo suas próprias regras para analise de mérito científico das 
propostas. 
                                                           
2 http://www.examenglish.com/CEFR/cefr.php 
 5 
 
c. 
Como listado no item 9.c, os coordenadores devem manter e compartilhar com o British Council 
todos os documentos do processo de seleção, tais como número de candidatos e seus CVs. 
Os candidatos selecionados serão notificados de duas a oito semanas após o término da chamada, dependendo do 
Estado para o qual a proposta foi submetida. 
16. Duração dos cursos 
Os cursos terão duração de 3 dias.  
17. Financiamento 
Os custos dos cursos serão cobertos pelo Newton Fund e a FAP parceira.  
O financiamento oferecido sob o programa Researcher Connect é entendido como uma contribuição em relação aos 
custos dos cursos. Coordenadores de curso devem buscar uma contribuição in-kind em relação ao custo geral ao 
dedicar seu tempo ao planejamento e entrega dos cursos. As universidades que receberão os cursos deverão 
disponibilizar um de seus membros para auxiliar na logística, impressão de materiais, preparação de salas etc, durante 
os cursos. Custos de pessoal de Universidade e honorários não podem ser cobertos pelo Newton Fund. 
O número máximo de participantes do curso é 20. Isso deve refletir no orçamento solicitado, segundo as indicações 
abaixo.   
17.1 Orçamento 
A FAP respectiva vai financiar o valor até  R$ 12.500 (doze mil e quinhentos reais) por curso. O Newton Fund cobrirá a 
taxa de serviço dos treinadores. Além disso, o Newton Fund vai financiar o valor de R$ 6.500 (seis mil e quinhentos 
reais), majoritariamente para cobrir a viagem dos mesmos.  
O orçamento deve ser submetido pelo coordenador do curso e incluir os seguintes itens: 
a. Itens elegíveis de financiamento pelo British Council: 
Custos de logística e taxas dos treinadores, bem como os custos relativos à participação de representantes do British 
Council, papelaria, e outros custos que não sejam elegíveis pela FAP e possam ser contratados diretamente pelo BC. 
b. Itens elegíveis de financiamento pelas FAPs: 
Cada FAP adotará uma lista de itens geralmente financiados. Confira a lista acessando a respectiva página da FAP para 
a qual a sua inscrição será submetida. 
18. Relatórios 
18.1 Relatório do British Council e Monitoramento e Avaliação 
Solicita-se aos coordenadores de curso a submissão de um relatório final dentro de 30 dias após o término do curso. O 
modelo de relatório final será enviado aos selecionados e incluirá uma parte narrativa, além de uma seção de 
informações sobre os participantes do curso. Ademais, o coordenador de curso deverá prestar contas de acordo com 
os procedimentos de cada FAP. 
Como mencionado no item 9, é parte das responsabilidades do coordenador de curso assegurar que todos os 
participantes responderão aos questionários do British Council. As respostas podem ser tanto escritas quanto online. 
18.2 Relatório das FAPs 
Cada FAP participante adotará seu modelo usual de relatórios específicos para essa modalidade de fomento.  
19. Encerramento da Chamada 
O prazo final para a submissão das propostas é às 23h59 do dia 16 de junho de 2015. Propostas submetidas após o 
prazo não serão consideradas para financiamento.  
 6 
 
20. Proteção de informações 
Como parte do formulário de inscrição online, o British Council pedirá permissão aos participantes para: 
 
Usar as informações fornecidas para processar a inscrição, fazer qualquer financiamento em decorrência do 
financiamento, monitoramento, manutenção e revisão do financiamento. Em alguns casos, as informações 
serão compartilhadas com os parceiros nacionais do programa para fins de seleção e monitoramento da 
concessão. 
 
Tornar públicas informações relacionadas à propostas vencedoras no site e em outros relatórios e 
documentos. 
 
Contatar candidatos para informá-los sobre outras oportunidades do British Council. 
Sob o UK Data Protection Law, você tem o direito de requerer as informações fornecidas (poderemos cobrar uma taxa 
por esse serviço) e reservamos o direito de corrigir qualquer informação incorreta. Se você deseja mais informações 
sobre esse tema, por favor, entre em contato com o escritório do British Council em São Paulo 
(http://www.britishcouncil.org/new/articles/maps/) 
ou 
com 
o 
Data 
Protection 
Team 
dataprotection@britishcouncil.org, ou visite nosso site http://www.britishcouncil.org/home-data-protection.htm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7 
 
Anexo 1 – Lista de critérios de elegibilidade 
A inscrição foi submetida pelo proponente dentro do prazo estipulado 
 
O/A candidata demonstrou alinhamento com os critérios de Assistência Oficial para o 
Desenvolvimento (ODA), especialmente em relação a 1) assegurar a diversidade entre os 
participantes dos cursos (i.e. raça, gênero, classe econômica, orientação sexual), ou 2) à relevância 
para comunidades de pesquisa pouco internacionalizadas, ou 3) em áreas do conhecimento poucos 
desenvolvidas, subfinanciadas ou diretamente relacionadas com desenvolvimento social.   
 
A inscrição foi submetida utilizando o formulário online correto  
 
Os proponentes forneceram confirmação de que a inscrição foi submetida em nome de suas 
instituições  
 
O formulário de inscrição está completo e de acordo com as instruções dadas 
 
O formulário de inscrição está em inglês 
 
Apenas uma inscrição por instituição foi submetida nesta chamada  
 
O curso ocorrerá entre 1º de julho de 2015 e 1º de março de 2016 
 
Os coordenadores de curso aceitaram organizar o curso e assinar contrato ou termo com a FAP 
respectiva 
 
As instituições onde os coordenadores de curso estão baseados são estabelecimentos de pesquisa ou 
instituições de ensino superior (incluindo universidades privadas) publicamente reconhecidas 
 
Para candidatos do Estado de São Paulo – a proposta foi submetida conforme as diretrizes da FAPESP 
disponíveis em http://www.fapesp.br/en/9451 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
Anexo 2 - Critérios de qualidade para avaliação das propostas  
Além dos critérios de análise de mérito científico de cada FAP para a respectiva modalidade de fomento, a avaliação 
de qualidade será feita por um painel de membros da respectiva FAP, que também será responsável pelo painel de 
revisão e pela decisão final. Inscrições com pontuação média inferior a 25 pontos não serão consideradas para 
financiamento. Da mesma forma, serão consideradas apenas as propostas que tenham claramente articulado 
relevância para o desenvolvimento internacional.  
 
 
 Pontuação 
 
 
  Variação 
 
Sessão 1 – Impacto dos cursos na comunidade acadêmica 
 
 
     0-20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sessão 2 – Detalhes da proposta e público alvo 
 
 
     0-20 
 
 
 
 
Sessão 3 – Plano para o desenvolvimento profissional dos participantes 
Por favor, identifique as falhas que o programa poderá endereçar no contexto da sua 
universidade e como você acredita que pode monitorar o progresso a curto e médio prazo. 
 
 
    0-20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PONTUAÇÃO TOTAL PARA AVALIAÇÃO DE QUALIDADE 
 (Sessão 1 + Sessão 2 + Sessão 3) 
 
 
    0-60 
 
