
  
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FRENCH-BRAZILIAN CALL  
2014 / 2015 
 
GUIDELINES FOR PROPOSALS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This guide, together with all information related to the Call for Proposals, 
is available at: www.lille-region.com  
 
 
 
 
 
                               
  
2 
 
 
1. Why a Post-ARCUS project? 
 
Nord-Pas de Calais and Minas Gerais are two regional authorities cooperating to provide greater 
and faster access for funding of innovative research. The main objective of this Call is to generate 
more 
applications for 
Research 
and 
Development 
funding 
under 
the 
European 
Commission’s Horizon 2020 initiative over the next 5 years. 
   
 
2. Call Announcement 
2.1 Objectives and Topics 
The strategic objective of the Call is to enable greater collaboration between French and Brazilian 
researchers.  
 
The funding objectives of the Call are transnational, application oriented R&D projects.  
 
This Call for project proposals has a limited scope, which include the following topics:  
 
1. Health  
This topic covers a broad and multidisciplinary field with a focus :  
- 
on causes and mechanismes underlying health and diseases; 
- 
the monitoring, prevention, detection and management of diseases; 
- 
the organization and financing of medical care, utilization patterns, patient and provider 
relations, social and behavioral epidemiology, health information systems; 
- 
Testing and demonstrating new models and tools for health medication. 
 
2. Materials 
This item will focus on developing new knowledge-based multifunctional surfaces and materials 
with tailored properties and predictable performance for new products and processes, targeting a 
wide range of applications. This requires the control of intrinsic properties, processing and 
production, taking into account potential impacts on health, safety and the environment throughout 
their entire life-cycle. 
 
3. Urban Planning  
The R&D activities will target the development of plans and programmes for the use of land and to 
help create communities, which will accommodate the growth of the population and revitalize 
physical facilities in towns, cities, countries, and metropolitan areas. 
 
4. Biodiversity 
This topic will focus on several aspects, among which are: 
                               
  
3 
 
 
 The number of different native species and individuals in a habitat or geographical area;  
 The variety of different habitats within an area; 
 The variety of interactions that occur between different species in a habitat; and  
 The range of genetic variation among individuals within a species. 
 
Projects are expected to promote new applications and services in the above mentioned areas. 
2.2 Eligible project structure 
All projects submitted under this Call should be designed on the following principles: 
 
 Project consortia consisting of at least 1 partner from Nord-Pas de Calais and 1 from Minas 
Gerais.  
 
 Project consortia can include partners from academic (universities, RTOs) or economic 
(SME, large companies) backgrounds. For health and materials thematic, participation of a 
SME is mandatory.  
 
 Large companies may participate at their own expenses.  
 
 The consortium must demonstrate a sufficient research capacity to achieve the project 
objectives. 
 
 The composition of the consortium should be efficient in size in order to accomplish the 
objectives proposed.  
 
 
2.3 Project budget 
Budget limits have been defined up to 250 000 EUR per project.  
 
Total budget should be well balanced between French and Brazilian partners.  
 
2.4 Project duration 
The projects will have a duration of up to 24 months.  
 
The approval communication will be sent within 30 days from the closing of the evaluation 
proceedings.  
 
Expenses for the successful applications will be made available from the starting date of the project; 
however, national or regional regulations that differ from this guideline may take precedent.  
 
                               
  
4 
 
 
 
2.5 Dates and deadlines 
 
Event 
Date 
Opening Call 
December, 5th 2014 
Closing date 
February, 20th 2015  
Eligibility check 
March 15th 2015 
Evaluation period 
May 15th 2015 
Communication final decision 
June 1st 2015 
 
Furthermore, the Nord-Pas de Calais region can indicate further deadlines for the collection of 
specific documents and information, if necessary. 
 
2.6 Funding rules  
In this Call, the funding rules of the respective agencies apply; each partner in a project proposal 
must be aware of the funding rules of the corresponding regional programme.  
Information about the specific funding rules of each participating country and region is provided in 
the Appendix 1. For more detailed information, each applicant should contact the relevant 
national/regional contact person (see Appendix 2). 
                               
  
5 
3. Application Procedure  
Proposals must be submitted electronically, using the on-line tool available on the following website 
at www.lille-region.com. Proposals received by other means will not be considered. 
Proposals must be prepared using the specific “application forms” available on www.lille-
region.com.  
Only the project coordinator - the partner who represents the consortium externally and is 
responsible for its internal management - is allowed to submit the proposal. 
The proposals have to be submitted in English. 
 
 
The deadline for proposal submission is February 20th, 2015 - 16h 00 (Brussels time). 
 
The following items have to be addressed in the proposal (see “proposal application form”): 
1. Summary. 
2. Consortium description (depiction of each partner and qualification of the consortium as a 
whole). 
3. Project contents (project objectives, progress from the state of the art and added value of 
transnational cooperation, short state of the art literature review and a clear hypothesis).  
4. Description of the work (methodology and work programme). 
5. Project costs quoted in Euros (EUR), using the exchange rate available at: 
http://www.oanda.com/currency/converter/ 
5.1 A detailed budget for the total amount requested.  
5.2 A detailed budget for the team of Nord-Pas de Calais. 
5.3. A detailed budget for the team of the State of Minas Gerais. 
6. Description of results and impact (only for the Health and Materials topics).  
7. Basis of the Consortium Agreement. 
8. A list of the outputs that will result from the research, such as publications and workshops, 
exchange of researchers and PhD students. 
9. Curriculum Vitae (CV) of the project coordinators, one from Minas Gerais and the other 
from Nord-Pas de Calais. 
 
 
 
                               
  
6 
4. Eligibility and Assessment Criteria 
4.1 Eligibility 
Following the deadline for the Call, all proposals will be assessed to ensure they meet the eligibility 
criteria. Proposals which do not fulfil the following eligibility criteria will not be included in the 
evaluation: 
 All applications must be recieved by the Call deadline. 
 All sections of the application form must be completed.   
 All documents requested should be provided. 
 The number of participants within an application must match the minimum requirement as 
outlined in the Call. 
 The partners must qualify to participate as outlined in the Call. 
All proposals that meet the above criteria will be processed and evalutaed as outlined below. 
 
4.2 Evaluation process 
The Expert Committee (EC) comprises at least 2 scientific experts from France and Brazil who will 
evaluate proposals in order to determine those whose merit is eligible for possible funding. If the 
EC is unable to reach consensus on a proposal, the funding agencies must then make a joint final 
decsion. 
 
As each agency follows a consensus reached amongst evaluators or agencies, no agency can be hold 
responsible for an evaluation or funding decision made by other agencies. The final decision for 
approval or not approval of a proposal is from both Agencies. 
 
All applicants may request further explanation related to the evaluation of the project to the 
corresponding regional funding agency. 
 
4.3 Selection of projects, grant funding and beginning of the activities 
Approved projects will be funded by both agencies according to an internal agreement among 
FAPEMIG and Nord-Pas Calais after a positive scientific evaluation.  
Funding contracts will be signed by successful project participants directly with their respective  
regional funding agency. The maximum period in which the agency involved must formalize the 
funding granted to each one of the projects is set accordingly to the corresponding national or 
regional rules. 
Following confirmation of funding for a project, an agreement between the project partners must be 
detailed, agreed and signed by all parties to ensure clarity of roles, responsbilities and Intelectual 
Propert Rights (IPR). Please refer to the application form for further details. 
 
The respective regional funding organisation will monitor the funded projects. 
                               
  
7 
APPENDIX 1. Funding Programmes  
For further information, please contact your national or regional contact personnel.  
 
 FAPEMIG 
 
1. Application 
1.1.  Members of the research institutions in the State of Minas Gerais are invited to submit   
Research Proposals within the framework explored below: 
1.1.1. The Research Proposal must be submitted only by Researchers working within 
Research Institutions located in the State of Minas Gerais.  
1.1.2. The Research Institution in the State of Minas Gerais submitting a Research 
Proposal must be registered at FAPEMIG.  
 
2. Conditions for Company Participation 
2.1. The proposed company must be associated to a Science, Technology, and Innovation 
Research Institute in Minas Gerais. 
2.2. The proposed company must provide the proper lab structure, as well as access to all 
available services which are essential to the project execution.  
2.3. The proposed company must provide appropriate conditions of space, infrastructure, 
technical and administrative staff for the development of the research project.  
2.4. The proposed company must include a financial counterpart of, at least, 10% (ten 
percent) of the total amount requested to FAPEMIG. 
 
3. Financial Resource 
3.1. The expenditures of this Call for proposal are connected to the FAPEMIG´s budget 
allocation informing bellow or by the successors:  
2071.19.573.259.4626.0001.442042.0.101 
2071.19.573.259.4626.0001.444042.0.101 
2071.19.573.259.4626.0001.445042.0.101 
2071.19.573.259.4626.0001.446039.0.101 
2071.19.573.259.4626.0001.449020.0.101 
3.2. The financial resource requested in the approved proposal will be released in two 
periods: 50% of the financial amount requested after the signature of the Termo de 
Outorga (TO) and 50% one year after the beginning of the project, having by then a 
submitted partial evaluation approved by FAPEMIG. 
 
4. Eligible costs 
4.1 The eligible items for funding informed below must be compatible with the goal of this 
Call for proposal, as well as FAPEMIG’s Manual, and duly justified: 
4.1.1. Equipment and permanent material. 
4.1.2. Consumables (including the purchase of books). 
4.1.3. Software. 
4.1.4. Airline ticket, health insurance, and living expense, according to the values 
defined by FAPEMIG. 
                               
  
8 
 
 
4.1.5. Import expenses. 
4.1.6. Operational expenses (meaning the 5% for the Management Institution). 
4.2 In this Call for proposal, since duly justified and relevant to the project´s objective, the 
funding of the following items will be exceptionally allowed: 
4.1.1. International airline ticket for the member of the Minas Gerais team to France. 
4.1.2. Health insurance for the Minas Gerais researcher in France. 
4.1.3. Living expense for the member of the Minas Gerais team for a maximum of 20 
(twenty) days permanence of the researcher in France. 
 
5. Evaluation 
5.1 The partial evaluation must be submitted to FAPEMIG up to 60 (sixty) days before the 
conclusion of one year of the project. The submission of the partial evaluation is made 
electronically by the Everest system at: http://everest.fapemig.br  
5.2 At the end of the project the coordinators of the selected Research Projects must submit 
to FAPEMIG a final report concerning the research development, achievements and a 
financial report.  
 
6. Intellectual Property 
6.1. The intellectual property rights, if resulting from the project developed under this Call 
proposal, may be subject to protection under the current legislation on intellectual 
property: Law nº 9.279/96 (Industrial Property Law), Law nº 9.610/98 (Copyright Law), 
Law nº 9.456/97 (Cultivares Law),  Law nº 9.609/98 (Computer Program Law), Law nº 
10.973/04 (Innovation Law), Decree nº 2.553/98 (which provides the obligation to 
award inventors from public institutions), Decree nº 5.563/05 (Regulates de Law nº 
10.973/04), Minas Gerais State´s Law nº 17.348/08 (Mineira Law for Innovation) and 
rule nº 72/2013 from FAPEMIG, whose co-authors are FAPEMIG, NDPC, and Proposer, 
respecting the author/inventor rights and  proportions of resources allocated by the 
institutions involved in the development of each product and  or process. 
6.2. The allocation of financial benefits arising from economic income earned in any 
commercial exploitation of the technology, in the case of License Agreements for 
Exploration and Assignment for other, will be defined in Co-Author and Technology 
Transfer contracts.  
 
7. 
Purchased Equipments in this Call for Proposal 
7.1 The purchased equipments with financial resource arising from this Call for proposal are 
owned by FAPEMIG. FAPEMIG can donate or give to the executor of the projects the 
equipments purchased arising from this Call for proposal by the legal concept of doação 
sob encargo or any other equivalent. 
7.2 FAPEMIG may give other destination to the purchased equipment form this financing, 
unlike provided herein, in the case(s) of part(s) contractor(s) fails full compliance by the 
TO 
 
 
 
                               
  
9 
 
8. 
Publication of the Result 
8.1  The result of this Call for proposal will be published in the Official Journal of the State 
of Minas Gerais (“Diario Oficial de Minas Gerais”) in the form of extract and on the 
homepage of FAPEMIG (www.fapemig.br), including the nominal list of projects at the 
address  
8.2 Any appeal may be submitted to the President of FAPEMIG within a five working days 
period after the publication of the results. 
 
 
9.      Hiring and Release of Funds 
9.1 The hiring of projects selected by this Call for proposals will obey the classification 
order and will make according to the availability of funds, by signing the TO which will 
be subscribed between FAPEMIG, the Coordinator of the Proposal in Minas Gerais and 
the Management Institution, all indicated in the proposal, herein. 
9.2 If there is a resource from the Management Institution, it should also be indicated in the 
proposal and it will sign the TO. 
9.3 The release of funds will be made in the manner provided in the corresponding TO and 
shall transfer the financial resource after the signature of the document by 
representatives of interested participants and the publication of its extract in the Official 
Journal of the State of Minas Gerais 
9.4 It will be defined in the TO the manner, conditions of participation, rights and 
obligations of each of the participants. 
 
10. 
Additional Information 
10.1 It will not be given supplementary resources to meet the additional costs. It is 
understood that any additional expenses will be at the responsibility of the research 
coordinator. 
10.2 The absence of any documents and information required by FAPEMIG, as well as 
incorrect filling of the form and its attachments shall result in disqualification of the 
proposal. 
10.3 In any promotional action or publication related to the object of the project funded by 
this Call for proposal should be done, it must necessarily mention FAPEMIG.  
10.4 Further information can be obtained from the Central of Information of FAPEMIG, at 
ci@fapemig.br . 
 
11.      General Provisions 
11.1 The results of the appeal mentioned in clause 11.2 shall be communicated in writing to 
the applicants. 
11.2 The existence of possible appeals will block the progress of all other actions and 
procedures foreseen to this Call for proposal. 
11.3 This Call for proposal may be revoked or canceled at any time, in whole or in part, 
either by an unilateral decision from FAPEMIG, whether by way of public interest or 
legal requirement, without thereby entitled to compensation or claim of any nature. 
 
For further information related to this Call: e-mails should be sent to: ci@fapemig.br  
                               
  
10 
 
 
 
 NORD PAS DE CALAIS  
 
 
1) For Universities and RTO’s – up to 80% of total costs (under specific conditions – 
please contact your local authority). 
 
2) FRI : Regional funds for Innovation. In 2009, a convention has been signed between 
BPI and Nord-Pas de Calais for funding companies under 2000 employees. In this case, 
the funding is also levied from a mutual fund in favour of innovation. Therefore, 
NPDC Region delegates the evaluation process, payments and reimbursements to BPI. 
For SMEs, the funding is provided as loans or grants, but mainly as zero interest loans 
(reimbursable in case of success). Funding rates vary according various criteria (such 
as the nature of the project, the size and age of the company, etc.). There is no upper 
limit of funding per proposal. Nevertheless, special attention will be paid to keep a 
balance between SME's resources and contribution asked for. 
 
Eligible projects: only R&D&I projects which associate at least one company or one 
research centre located in Nord-Pas de Calais. 
 
Eligible expenses: personnel, travel and subsistence, equipment and consumables under 
specific conditions. At regional level, the expenses will be eligible from the date requested 
by a letter signed by the project coordinator and submitted to the regional authorities. 
Retroactivity can be taken into consideration under particular conditions. 
 
Submission procedure: after projects have been officially recommended for funding by the 
Crosstexnet consortium, project partners located in Nord-Pas de Calais have to submit its 
proposal on a general administrative procedure not specifically dedicated to the French - 
Brazilian Call. Besides, a juridical act by the regional authority is necessary for granting. 
 
For further information, please contact Leila Mehnane : leila.mehnane@nordpasdecalais.fr  
       Tel : +33 3 28 82 76 07.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                               
  
11 
 
APPENDIX 2. Evaluation criteria 
Eligible proposals will be evaluated with regards to the following pre-determined evaluation 
criteria. 
 
1. For the Health and Materials topics :  
1 
Scientific and technical content 
 Relevance to the objectives of the Call 
 Innovative character in relation to the state-of-art 
 Contribution for the advancement of technology 
2 
Transnational added value 
 Added value generated by the international 
cooperation 
3 
Consortium 
 Excellence of the involved partners 
 Quality of the consortium as a whole 
(complementarity and balance) 
4 
Work plan 
 Effectiveness of the methodology 
 Adequacy and feasibility of the work plan  
5 
Budget 
 Adequacy of the budget and other resources 
 Appropriate distribution of the resources  
6 
Impact 
 Potential impact on the partners (including business 
and competitiveness) 
7 
Exploitation of results 
 Potential market for the project results 
 Appropriateness of exploitation plan 
 
2. For urban planning/territories and biodiversity thematic:  
1 
Scientific and technical content 
 Relevance to the objectives of the Call 
 Innovative character in relation to the state-of-art 
 Contribution to advancement of knowledge  
2 
Transnational added value 
 Added value generated by the international 
cooperation 
3 
Consortium 
 Excellence of the involved partners 
 Quality of the consortium as a whole 
(complementarity and balance) 
4 
Work plan 
 Effectiveness of the methodology 
 Adequacy and feasibility of the work plan  
5 
Budget 
 Adequacy of the budget and other resources 
 Appropriate distribution of the resources  
6 
Impact 
 Societal added-value of the project 
 
