
                                                                                                 
 
            
CONFAP - CNPq – THE UK ACADEMIES 2019 
Fellowships, Research Mobility, and 
Young Investigator Grants for UK 
researchers in Brazil 
 
 
The fifth round opens on 13th of December, 2019 for applications and will close on 6th 
of of April, 2020 at 12.00 midday Brasília Time.  
 
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated by its National Council 
(CONFAP), and the National Council for Scientific and Technological Development 
(CNPq) are launching a call for proposals offering support to researchers based in UK 
Universities and Research Institutions, who are willing to work in research institutions 
in Brazil, in collaboration with local colleagues.  
 
 
 
The Brazilian State Funding Agencies participants of this call for proposals are: 
 
1. Fundação Araucária – Paraná; 
2. FACEPE - Pernambuco 
3. FAPDF – Distrito Federal; 
4. FAPEAL - Alagoas 
5. FAPEAM – Amazonas; 
6. FAPEG – Goiás; 
7. FAPEMA – Maranhão; 
8. FAPEMIG – Minas Gerais; 
9. FAPEPI – Piauí 
10. FAPERGS – Rio Grande do Sul; 
11. FAPERJ – Rio de Janeiro; 
12. FAPES – Espírito Santos; 
13. FAPESB - Bahia 
14. FAPESC – Santa Catarina; 
15. FAPESP – São Paulo; 
16. FAPESPA – Pará; 
17. FUNCAP – Ceará; and,  
18. FUNDECT – Mato Grosso do Sul.  
 
The call offers support for researchers in the UK through:  
 
a) Fellowships;  
b) Research Mobility Grants, and,  
c) In the case of UK young researchers aiming at working in universities and 
research institutes in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, this call also offer the 
opportunity of Young Investigator Grants comprising a scholarship plus a 
research funding grant.  
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
 
These activities are under the auspice of the Newton Fund, an initiative that aims to 
develop the long-term sustainable growth and welfare of partner countries through 
building research, innovation capacities, and is part of the UK’s Official Development 
Assistance commitment.  
 
These awards offer an opportunity for the UK researcher to develop the strengths and 
capabilities of their research groups through training, collaboration and reciprocal visits 
with partners in some of the best research groups in Brazil.  
 
For further information, please contact fundonewton.confap@gmail.com. For 
researchers aiming at developing activities in the State of São Paulo, Brazil, please 
contact chamada-ukacademies@fapesp.br. For researcher aiming at CNPq support, 
please contact UKACA@cnpq.br. 
  
a) How to apply  
 
i. 
For researchers outside the State of São Paulo applications are available at: 
https://sigconfap.ledes.net/ from 20th of January, 2020 
ii. 
Researcher from the State of São Paulo, or Young Investigators from the UK 
aiming at receiving funds from FAPESP to work in a university or research institute 
in the state of São Paulo, Brazil, must send proposals directly to FAPESP. Please 
follow the specific guidelines for FAPESP at http://www.fapesp.br/13846 
iii. 
The proposal must be submitted in English 
 
2. Eligibility  
 
a)  The applicants must hold a PhD degree:  
a.1) Young researchers are considered to hold a PhD degree from 2 years to 7 years.  
a.2) Senior researchers must hold a PhD degree for over 7 years.  
 
b) The applicants must have a Brazilian-based collaborator as their co-applicant (host 
researcher).  
 
c) The applicants must hold a permanent academic post or postdoctoral 
fellowship/position in the UK which extends beyond the period of the requested 
grant;  
 
d) UK researchers from the natural sciences, engineering, medical sciences (including 
clinical or patient-oriented research), social sciences and humanities fields, are 
eligible to apply for support.  
 
e) Some FAPs may have their own Guidelines associated to this Announcement. 
Interested parties are advised to consult their supporting FAP before preparing a 
proposal. 
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
f) The CNPq support is directed to the mobility of British applicants to the States 
where the FAPs who are members of the Memorandum of Understanding signed on 
22nd September 2017, however it is not mentioned as participating FAP on this 
activity.  
 
g) Proposals from the co-applicants that will request the support of CNPq must follow 
the rules and inform the value of the support defined by this Institution.  
 
h) For submissions to FAPESP the following criteria hold, according to the type of 
support aimed at:  
 
 h.1) Research Fellowships: the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-
applicant) in charge or as a principal investigator of an ongoing grant of the following 
types: Thematic, Young Investigator, Engineering Research Centers, Public Policy 
Research, or Research, Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centres. Please note 
that support will be Granted through FAPESP Visiting Researcher Grants 
(www.fapesp.br/147).  
h.2) Researcher Mobility, support will also be through Visiting Researcher Grants 
(www.fapesp.br/147): there must be a host researcher (co-applicant) in the State of São 
Paulo, but not necessarily in charge of an ongoing FAPESP grant.  
h.3)Young Investigator Grants: the UK applicant must have a PhD or equivalent title, 
an outstanding research track record, and typically 2-5 years post-doctoral experience in 
a research group in the UK.  (www.fapesp.br/en/11315)  
 
i) The application form must be filled in English and the budget detail must be 
informed in Brazilian Reais (R$). 
 
3. Types of grants  
 
3.1 Fellowships  
 
3.1.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the State of 
São Paulo  
 
Fellowship support is offered through two categories for a period of 6 to 36 months:  
 
a) For Young Researchers:  
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 7,000.00  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
 
b) For Senior Researchers:  
 A monthly scholarship of R$ 10,000.00  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher  
 Grant in the amount of R$ 25,000.00 each six months  
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
 
3.1.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo  
 
In the state of São Paulo fellowship support is offered through FAPESP Visiting 
Researcher Grant for a single period to a maximum of 12 months. As mentioned, 
the UK researcher must be associated to a FAPESP PI (co-applicant) in charge of an 
ongoing grant of the following types: Thematic; Young Investigator; Research, 
Innovation, and Diffusion of Knowledge Centres; Engineering Research Centers or 
Public Policy Research (more details at http://www.fapesp.br/en/visiting):  
 
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.830,00 (Young Researcher) 
to R$ 16.110,00 (Full Professor). The level of payment is to be suggested by the 
host investigator and confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance.  
 Scholarship for one undergraduate student to assist the researcher.  
 Grant to the host PI with whom the visitor will be associated: the host PI may 
request FAPESP supplementary funds up to R$ 25.000.00 for every six months of 
stay of the visitor. These funds are to be used for research related expenses with 
consumables, services, and travel.  
 
3.2 
Research Mobility support  
 
3.2.1 For UK researchers aiming at receiving support from FAPs outside the state of 
São Paulo: 
 
Two types of mission can be considered:  
 
a) Mission up to fifteen days:  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance.  
 Daily support in a value defined by the FAPs or CNPq. 
 
b) Mission from sixteen days to three months:  
 Airline ticket (round trip and economic class) and travel insurance.  
 A monthly scholarship in the amount of R$ 7,000.00 monthly.  
 
3.2.2 For UK researchers aiming to receive support from FAPESP, to work in a 
University or Research Institute in the State of São Paulo:   
 
Please note only one single mission is supported by FAPESP, not multiple visits. Three 
types of mission can be considered: 
 
a) One single mission from five to fifteen days: 
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance OR 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of values.  
 
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
b) One single mission from fifteen  days to up to one month: 
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance, and 
 Daily support to be paid according to FAPESP´s per diem table of values.  
 
c) One single mission from one to twelve months:  
 One return airline ticket and travel insurance, and 
 A monthly scholarship with value ranging from R$ 10.680,00 (Young Researcher) 
to R$ 15.870,00 (Full Professor). The level is to be suggested by the host 
investigator and confirmed by FAPESP upon merit review.  
 
3.3 Young Investigator Grant (only for FAPESP applicants) 
In addition to the above, for young investigators from the UK to start a research career 
in a university or research institution in the State of São Paulo, FAPESP offers, as part 
of the State of São Paulo side matching funds, an opportunity through its Young 
Investigator Grants. A FAPESP Young Investigator Grant, a 5-year grant, comprises 
funds for (more details at www.fapesp.br/en/11315):  
 
 Equipment, consumables, services, and travel necessary to the 4-year research 
project.  
 A monthly scholarship for the Young Investigator of R$ 8.377,50 (tax-free) to be 
paid for up to four years or until he/she obtains a permanent position in a university 
or research institution in the State of São Paulo.  
 A quota of scholarships for undergraduate students who will work in parts of the 
research project (Scientific Initiation) and a quota of MSc and Direct Doctorate 
scholarships for graduate students, to be selected and supervised by the Young 
Investigator.  
 In addition to the approved budget for the discriminated items mentioned above 
FAPESP includes a value equal to 15% as an overhead to be used in direct research 
infrastructure or non-anticipated expenses (e.g. travel, visitors,..) necessary for the 
project, and another 10% that is awarded as an institutional overhead.  
 
4. Selection criteria  
 
All applications will be assessed through a peer review process based on the following 
criteria:  
 
a) The quality of the proposed research project.  
b) The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area 
of proposed research.  
c) The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
d) The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Brazilian-based co-applicant and 
Brazilian host organization in the area of proposed research.  
e) The additional benefits for the Brazilian based Co-applicant and host organization.  
f) Evidence that the support will lead to a long-term collaboration beyond the tenure of 
the award.  
 
  
                                                                                                 
 
            
5. Announcement of the Result 
 
Results from this call for proposals will be announced from middle of August 2020. 
 
Due the internal procedure of the institutions involved on this call for proposal, it is 
suggested that the planned mobility be scheduled from December 2020.  
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 CANDIDATO BRITÂNICO
INSITUIÇÃO
CO-CANDIDATO 
BRASILEIRO
INSITUIÇÃO
TÍTULO
1
Ana Beatriz Lopes de Sousa Jabbour
 
University ofLincoln
Marcia Dutra de Barcellos
UFRGS
Are Food Supply Chains
Ready to Meet Demand for
Healthier and More
Sustainable Consumpon in
the aermath of Covid-19 - 
Mapping Bolenecks and
Direcons to Stakeholders
2
Karen Wood
Coventry University
Monica Fagundes Dantas
UFRGS
The Embodied Experience
in ‘Carne Digital: Arquivo
Eva Schul (Digital Flesh: Eva
Schul Archive)
3
 
Mahew C.Turner
University of Southampton
João Manoel Gomes da 
Silva Junior
UFRGS
Analysis and design tools
applied to the an-windup
and Lure problems in a
networked control contex
4
Luciano Ost
Loughborough University
Ricardo Augusto da Luz Reis
UFRGS
Invesgaon of So Error
Migaon Techniques for
Mulcore Systems
5
Roberta Ferro de Godoy
Wrile University College 
Charles Ferreira Martins
UFPel
Biomechanical assessment
of the Criollo horse:
combining morphology and
funcon
6
Geoffrey John Rodgers
Brunel University
Fernando Lucas Metz
UFRGS
Combining Brazilian-UK
Experse in Random Matrix
Theory
7
Rui Miguel Vieira Marques da Costa
London School of Economics 
and Polical Science
Lígia Mori Madeira
UFRGS
Violence and Early Years 
Intervenon: Evidence
From Brazil
8
 
James PHobkirk
University of Hull
Cézane Priscila Reuter
UNISC
Understanding the OMICS
of Obesity Prevenon &
Cure: A Transformaonal
advance:
9
Charbel Jose Chiappea Jabbour
University of Lincoln
Alejandro German Frank
UFRGS
UK-BRAZIL Collaborave
Research in Sustainable
Producon 4.0: Exchangin
Knowkedge and Steen a
Common Research Agenda
Porto Alegre,  30 de outubro de 2020
Gervásio Annes Degrazia
Diretor Técnico-científico 
Odir Antônio Dellagostin 
 Diretor-presidente
Resultado Final  Propostas Aprovadas
CHAMADA CONFAP - UK ACADEMIES
Patrícia Maria Seger
Diretora Administrativo-financeira 
