
1 
 
 
 
MRC-CONFAP Call for Health Systems 
Research Networks 
 
 
1. Contents 
 
1. 
Contents .......................................................................................................................................... 1 
1. 
Background ..................................................................................................................................... 1 
2. 
Call scope ........................................................................................................................................ 2 
3. 
Research impact .............................................................................................................................. 2 
4. 
Assessment criteria ......................................................................................................................... 3 
5. 
Funding & Eligibility ........................................................................................................................ 3 
6 
Submission guidelines ..................................................................................................................... 5 
7 
Contacts .......................................................................................................................................... 5 
 
 
1. Background 
 
The joint funders have a strong commitment to supporting research that aims to 
improve health policy and systems for vulnerable communities in Brazil. Since its launch 
in 1990 Sistema Único de Saúde (SUS) has seen a fundamental restructuring of the 
Brazilian Health System. Underpinned by political vision and gradual increase in available 
funds for public health SUS has contributed to improvement in access to health services 
in Brazil.  
 
The decentralisation of health system decision making and delivery alongside revised 
arrangements for responsibilities across federal, state and municipal levels have been 
fundamental to Brazils move towards attainment of Universal Health Coverage. As the 
health system continues to evolve there is growing recognition that the challenges 
confronting health systems strengthening transcend disciplinary boundaries, highlighting 
the need for research to foster genuine interdisciplinary collaborations across social 
science, biomedical science, and other disciplines to address these complex challenges. 
 
                       
2 
 
2. Call scope 
 
2.1 The proposed MRC-CONFAP call for health systems research networks seeks to 
support UK-Brazil partnerships working to identify research questioned focused on 
improving the health system and health care for vulnerable communities in Brazil.  
 
2.2 The UK-Brazil network must include at least two participating Brazilian State Funding 
Agencies (“FAP”) in Brazil and one UK partner. 
 
2.3 The joint funders seek interdisciplinary proposals from UK-Brazil networks that aim 
to address health systems challenges in Brazil. Proposals must describe how and why the 
proposed UK-Brazil network would be best placed to develop projects that would have 
the potential to improve the health of vulnerable communities in Brazil. 
 
2.4 Proposed research activities should aim to provide evidence to strengthen the 
Brazilian health system and improve health outcomes. The joint funders will award 
proposals for rigorous, high quality research that will: 
 
2.4.1. Generate evidence on how to strengthen the health system and improve 
health outcomes in Brazil. 
 
2.4.2 Inform the delivery of evidence-based interventions or structural changes. 
  
 2.4.3 Provide evidence that is of direct relevance to decision makers and users in 
the field. 
 
2.5 Applicants must demonstrate a clear and strong rationale for how their proposed 
network and research, as well as the approach taken, meets the criteria for world-class 
and cutting-edge policy-relevant research addressing key questions on strengthening 
health systems in Brazil. 
 
3. Research impact 
 
3.1 Applicants must identify the potential impacts of their research on policy and practice 
and outline clear relevance to decision makers and practitioners.  
 
3.2 Projects should identify and address the key barriers to implementation and uptake 
of evidence-based interventions at local and national levels, paving the way for their 
successful adoption into routine practice with improved access and use by the 
populations in need. 
 
3.3 Solutions to strengthening health systems in Brazil must be rooted in, and  
acceptable to, the institutions, communities, and societies where they will operate. As 
such, non-academic stakeholders, including potential users of the research, are expected 
to be included and involved in the design and delivery of projects. Indeed, proposals 
should demonstrate strong engagement with stakeholders and decision makers from the 
project inception stage and include appropriate budget for such activities.  
                       
3 
 
 
3.4 Researchers are encouraged to be innovative in the kinds of user engagement, 
knowledge exchange, communications and research uptake activities they plan to 
undertake during and beyond the period of research funding. It is important that 
applicants appreciate that outreach and engagement activities in themselves do not 
constitute impact.  
4. Assessment criteria 
 
4.1 To be funded, proposals must be internationally competitive and at a standard 
equivalent to that normally expected to be supported by each joint funder.  
 
4.2 Assessment criteria follow the following headings, full details can be found in the 
guidance for applicants: 
 
4.2.1. Research Quality 
4.2.2. Impact 
4.2.3. Research Management, People and Partnership  
4.2.4. Methodology 
4.2.5. Ethics 
4.2.6. Data Management Plan  
4.2.7. Resources Requested 
4.2.8. Official Development Assistance (ODA) compliance 
 
4.3 Applications received and comments for all peer-reviews will be assessed by a joint 
Research Panel in January 2018. 
 
5. Funding & Eligibility 
 
5.1 This call funds partnership working between UK and Brazilian researchers. Each 
network must be interdisciplinary and include researchers from at least 2 (no more than 
4) participating FAPs in Brazil, and at least one UK partner. 
 
5.2 The MRC will make up to £2.0m available for this scheme to fund the UK 
collaborators. The £2m made available by the UK funders will be matched with 
equivalent effort from the Brazilian FAPs, who will fund the Brazilian collaborators. 
 
5.3 The agencies would expect to fund approximately 8-12 projects in total. The size of 
the grants will vary according to the needs of each research project. 
 
5.4 Applicants do not need to request equal amounts from both sides. The difference in 
values should reflect the difference in costs covered and local prices. The agencies also 
expect the costs on each side to accurately reflect the research effort to be carried out. 
It is expected that the research effort on both sides is comparable. 
 
5.5 UK and Brazilian applicants are allowed to participate in 1 (one) proposal as Principal 
Investigator (PI) and an additional proposal as co-Principal Investigator. Multiple 
                       
4 
 
submissions from researchers of the same Institution of Higher Education and Research 
is permissible. 
 
For funding support under this call, applicants must be eligible to apply for funding from 
their respective country’s funding agency: 
 
5.5 UK Applicants:  
 
For the UK applicants, standard RCUK/MRC eligibility criteria as described in the MRC 
Guidance for Applicants and RCUK will apply. MRC Units and Institutes are also eligible to 
apply to this call. UK costs must be requested in accordance with standard MRC 
Guidance for Applicants. 
 
5.6 Brazilian Applicants; Eligibility for submission to the Brazilian State Funding 
Agencies: 
 
Brazilian applicants should refer to CONFAP’s eligibility rules for this call.  
 
Please note it is important to check that the relevant Brazilian State Funding Agency 
(“FAP”) is participating in this call – not all Brazilian FAPs have agreed to participate. The 
participants FAPs of this call for proposal are: FACEPE, FAPDF, FAPEAL, FAPEG, FAPEMA, 
FAPEMIG, FAPEPI, FAPESC, FAPESP, FAPESQ, FAPITEC, FAPT, FUNCAP e FUNDECT.  
 
5.6.1 Some 
FAPs 
may 
have 
their 
own 
Guidelines 
associated 
to 
this 
Announcement. Interested parties are advised to consult with their 
supporting FAP before preparing a proposal. 
 
5.6.2 Researchers from the State of São Paulo must consult the FAPESP 
Guidelines specific for this Announcement.  
 
5.7 Funding rules for Brazilians Applicants 
 
5.7.1 Each proposal must clearly identify the Principal Investigators (PI) and Co-Principal 
Investigator who are eligible for support from each FAP, their home institution, and their 
role in the proposed research activity. 
 
5.7.2 Each proposal must inform the total amount requested from MRC, FAPs, and from 
each one of the FAPs. 
 
5.7.3 Each proposal must detail the part of the budget requested from each FAP. The 
proposal must also make explicit the name of the PI eligible to each FAP. If the proposal 
is approved this PI will be the responsible for contracting and managing the funds 
approved. 
 
5.7.4 Funding can be requested for travel (economic class and round trip) for team 
members from Brazil, travel insurance, living stipend, consumables, scholarship, and, 
equipment (purchase and maintenance), and services, according to the values defined 
by the FAP accessible by each member of the research team. 
 
                       
5 
 
5.7.5 Each FAP has its own rules about eligible items and value for scholarships and 
living stipend. No items and/or values requested outside the list of eligible items and 
values will be funded by the relevant FAP 
 
5.7.6 Some FAPs may announce information regarding the financial support in their 
specific Guidelines.  
6 Submission guidelines 
 
6.1 The proposal must be elaborated jointly by the applicants in the UK and in Brazil and 
submitted on the application form shown in ANNEX 1.  
 
6.2 Identical copies of the proposal must be submitted, in English, to MRC and CONFAP 
by the PIs. Proposals not submitted to all Agencies mentioned above will not be 
considered eligible in this call for proposal. 
 
6.3 The submission to the CONFAP system will be made by only one Brazilian PI of the 
proposal. The research team will define the member who will submit the proposal.  
 
6.4 All proposals which include PIs in the State of São Paulo and requesting funds from 
the State Funding Agency of São Paulo (FAPESP) must be submitted separately to 
FAPESP (in addition to being submitted to CONFAP) following the Guidelines announced 
by FAPESP at www.fapesp.br/11089 . Proposals requesting funds from FAPESP and not 
submitted to FAPESP will not be considered. 
 
6.5 The Application Form will be available by 1 August 2017 and it is suggested to be 
submitted in PDF format.  
 
6.6 UK applicants must ensure applications are submitted on the Je-S system by 26 
September 2017 at 16:00 (BST). 
 
6.7 Brazilian PI’s must submit applications on the SigConfap https://sigconfap.ledes.net/ 
by 26 September 2017 at 13:00 (Brasília time). 
 
6.7 Key dates: 
 
Closing 
dates 
for 
coordinator 
submit 
the 
proposal to MRC, CONFAP e FAPESP 
26 September 2017 
Research Panel Meeting  
 
Late January 2018 
Result announcement  
 
February 2018 
 
7 Contacts  
 
 
For 
further 
information, 
UK 
applicants 
should 
contact: 
international@headoffice.mrc.ac.uk  
 
                       
6 
 
 
For further information, Brazilian applicants should contact: 
o 
From the State of São Paulo: http://www.fapesp.br/en/contactus/  
o 
From other States: fundonewton.confap@gmail.com   
   
 
 
1 
 
                    
 
UK-CONFAP Call for Health Systems Research Networks 
 
Application and Case for Support Guidance 
 
Contents 
1. Important application information ........................................................................ 2 
2. Application Process ............................................................................................ 3 
2.1 Application and review process ....................................................................... 3 
2.2 UK applicants ............................................................................................... 3 
2.3 Brazilian applicants ....................................................................................... 4 
2.4 Page Lengths ................................................................................................ 4 
3. Additional document information ......................................................................... 5 
3.1 Case for Support ........................................................................................... 5 
3.2 Pathways to impact ....................................................................................... 8 
4. Budget ............................................................................................................. 9 
5. Joint electronic System (Je-S) ............................................................................ 10 
5.1 Creating a Je-S account ................................................................................ 10 
5.2 Guidance for Overseas Organisations to be registered on J-S ............................ 12 
6. Assessment Process and Criteria ........................................................................ 13 
7. Agreements ..................................................................................................... 15 
7.1 Collaboration Agreement ............................................................................... 15 
7.2 Intellectual Property ..................................................................................... 15 
7.3 Material Transfer Agreements ........................................................................ 15 
7.4 Ethics ......................................................................................................... 15 
7.5 Humans/Human Tissue ................................................................................. 16 
8. Terms and Conditions ....................................................................................... 18 
Annex 1 .............................................................................................................. 21 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
2 
 
 
1. Important application information 
 
This initiative will provide funding for collaborative research projects. Researchers will be 
responsible for developing their own collaborations and, once a research proposal is 
developed, UK and Brazilian applicants must apply jointly for funding. Applicants are 
responsible for ensuring they follow the correct procedure for both UK and Brazilian 
funders.  
 
For administrative purposes, all projects will have a Principal Investigator (PI) based at a 
UK Research Organisation (RO) and a Principal Investigator based at a Brazilian RO.  
Grants can be up to 3 years in duration and must start by 1 April 2018 and the end date 
of the proposed research should be no later than 31 March 2021.  
 
MRC will provide funding for the UK-based applicants under standard arrangements and 
at 80% FEC. Respective FAP’s will provide funding for the Brazilian applicants according 
to the usual funding guidelines of each FAP. The size of the grants will vary according to 
the needs of the research project.  
 
As the UK contribution will be provided by the MRC’s Newton Fund allocation, the 
research proposed must meet Official Development Assistance (ODA) requirements and 
be specifically relevant to the Brazilian population. Funding will be awarded in a manner 
that fits with ODA guidelines. All applications under this call must therefore be compliant 
with these guidelines to be deemed eligible.  
For further information on ODA please visit: http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-
is-oda/  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
3 
 
 
2. Application Process 
2.1 Application and review process 
1. Closing date for proposals on Tuesday 26 September 2017.  
2. Joint peer review process including UK and Brazilian academic reviews  
3. Joint panel meetings of UK and Brazilian academic experts, January 2018. 
2.2 UK applicants 
The following documents should be submitted via Je-S by 16:00 BST, Tuesday 26 
September 2017 https://je-s.rcuk.ac.uk/ 
 
• 
A completed Je-S form. 
All UK and Brazilian investigators MUST be included. This form reflects the UK 
costs, so while the Brazilian investigators should be included, hours charged for 
the Brazilian investigators should be 0. A breakdown and justification of Brazilian 
costs should be included in the Justification of resources 
• 
A cover letter (optional) 
• 
A jointly prepared Case for Support (see section 3). An additional one-page annex 
(if required) can be attached to the Case for Support detailing the methodology 
and experimental design aspects. The use of this annex is strongly advised where 
the proposal included the use of animals and/or human participants, or where the 
methodology /experimental design proposed is practically novel. Please see 
section 2.2.3.4 in the MRC Guidance for applicants 
• 
Brazilian costs pro-forma 
• 
Justification of Resources for the total costs requested for the project (both UK 
and Brazilian costs should be fully justified) 
• 
Pathways to Impact - please see section 4 and section 2.2.5 in the MRC Guidance 
for applicants 
• 
CV’s + Publications (uploaded individually) for each of the UK and Brazilian 
partners named on the grant 
• 
Data Management Plan – section 2.2.8 in the MRC Guidance for applicants 
• 
Letters of Support 
o 
From both the UK and Brazilian Research Organisations demonstrating 
support for the proposed project. 
o 
Where the Brazilian partner or third party (any organisation other than the 
UK RO) is responsible for recruitment of people as research participants. 
o 
From any project partner where an in-kind payment is being contributed 
 
Most of the requirements are the same as for a standard MRC application.  The MRC 
Guidance for Applicants and Award Holders can be found on the MRC website: 
http://www.mrc.ac.uk/funding/guidance-for-applicants/   
 
 
 
   
 
 
4 
 
 
All attachments should be completed in 11 point Arial typeface, with a minimum 
of 2cm margins. Applications will not be accepted where smaller or narrow 
typefaces have been used.  
2.3 Brazilian applicants 
You must submit a combined PDF of the above documents (identical) to CONFAP (and 
FAPESP where relevant – Please find full guidelines for SP researchers at 
www.fapesp.br/11089) on the SigConfap https://sigconfap.ledes.net/ by 26 September 
2017 at 13:00 (Brasília time).  
 
• 
Case for Support 
• 
Brazilian costs pro-forma 
• 
Justification of Resources 
• 
Pathways to Impact  
2.4 Page Lengths 
(A4 size) 
MRC-CONFAP – Health Systems 
Research 
 
Maximum No of Pages 
Case for Support 
6  (plus 1 page for references) 
Justification of Resources 
3 
CV’s 
2 
Publications 
1 
Letters of Support 
2 
Pathways to Impact 
2 
Data Management Plan 
3  
Covering Letter 
Brazilian costs pro forma (attachment type: 
Non-UK Component) 
2 (2 per letter) 
As required 
 
 
   
 
 
5 
 
 
3. Additional document information 
3.1 Case for Support  
The case for support should not exceed 6 sides of A4.  You may include one additional 
side for references, so the document can be 7 sides in total.  Your Case for Support must 
be attached to your Je-S online application as a PDF.    
 
Section 1: Identification of the Team Members 
 
Please complete the below table for all Brazilian and UK applicants 
 
 
Name 
 
Institution / 
Department 
(it should 
include the 
address) 
Brazilian 
State 
Funding 
Agency 
 
Contac 
information 
(telephone 
and e-mail) 
 
Area of 
Research 
 
Link of CV 
available at 
Plataforma 
Lattes 
 
Role in 
the 
Research 
(PI/Co-I 
etc) 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is required to include the information of all team members  
 
Section 2: Information about the research proposal (6 pages) 
 
Please use the following headings and the guidance below.  
 
3.1.1 Research project summary  
3.1.2 Health Systems relevance and importance 
3.1.3 Theoretical Framework 
3.1.4 Project and methodology description  
3.1.5 Scientific potential and expected outcomes  
3.1.6 Research project team, partnership and capacity building 
3.1.7 Data management plan 
3.1.8 ODA Relevance 
3.1.9 Ethics 
 
3.1.1 Research Project summary information 
 
• 
Full title of the project (no more than 150 characters) 
• 
Duration in months and proposed timeline 
• 
Total amount requested from the MRC and the total budget of the project (UK 
and Brazil).  
• 
Principal health systems research question to be addressed 
 
   
 
 
6 
 
Funding Organisation  
(MRC/FAP) 
 
UK funding 
requested at 80% 
FEC (as indicated in 
the Je-S proposal 
form) 
Brazilian 
funding 
requested from 
this scheme 
(GBP) 
Total funding 
requested 
(GBP) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1.2 Health Systems relevance and importance: why is this research needed 
now and in this proposed location? 
 
• 
What evidence is there that the answer to your research question is needed and 
wanted by relevant users, for instance, policy-makers and research users? 
• 
Please discuss issues such as burden of disease and priority for local and national 
health systems and how this research will strengthen local health systems.  
• 
Proposals must outline why the research is important to this particular context 
and ensure that the proposal clearly addresses a health system research 
question rather than, for example, only evaluating the effects of a specific health 
service intervention. 
• 
You must demonstrate knowledge of relevant health systems empirical literature 
and propose how this research may contribute to this literature.  
 
3.1.3 Theoretical Framework  
 
Please describe how your research questions and methodologies are embedded within a 
suitable theoretical framework with reference to relevant scholarly literature. This 
framework could draw from any of the appropriate disciplines (economics, sociology, 
anthropology, political science etc.) and should demonstrate an understanding of 
theories and concepts that are relevant to your research focus. Where appropriate, 
proposals should also outline what contribution this research will make to an advance in 
theoretical knowledge. 
 
3.1.4 Project and methodology description 
 
Please describe your proposed research project, ensuring that you cover the following 
points: 
• 
Where will the research take place? 
• 
Who will the research participants be and why? 
• 
What pilot or preliminary information do you have available to help the panel 
assess the feasibility of the proposed study? Costly and complex studies are 
welcome but applicants should ensure that research questions remain tight 
and focused and that a potential Panel would be confident any large study 
could be managed effectively in the field. 
• 
If you are testing delivery of an intervention, please be clear about what that 
intervention will consist of and why. How would delivery of the intervention 
relate to the broader health system and contribute to health systems 
strengthening. 
• 
Consider how the findings from the proposed study, especially if it has a 
single disease focus, may inform work on other related conditions or 
   
 
 
7 
 
diseases. 
• 
If the research involves data collection or acquisition you must demonstrate 
that you have carried out a datasets review, and explicitly state why currently 
available datasets are inadequate for the proposed research. 
• 
What is the proposed timeline? 
• 
How will you evaluate the outcomes of the study? 
 
Methodology 
 
Give details of the methodological approaches, study design and techniques that will be 
used. Particular care should be taken to explain any innovation in the methodology or 
where you intend to develop new methods. The use of qualitative methodology is 
welcomed where appropriate but researchers should take care to ensure that this is 
sufficiently detailed and justified. Applicants must ensure that the proposed methodology 
is appropriate to addressing their research questions and that any countries of focus are 
well justified. The panel will take a broad view of appropriate methodologies proposed to 
conduct systems based research. 
 
3.1.5 Research project team, partnership and capacity building 
 
How does the team of investigators incorporate the range of discipline and experience 
necessary to carry out the study? To what extent is this application led and/or informed 
by Brazilian researchers? You should explain and justify how this research project will build a 
research network between UK and Brazilian researchers and institutions. Please ensure budget 
breakdowns between high income and Brazilian researchers are appropriate with the 
aims of the scheme and ODA funding. Please outline any plans for capacity building 
including: 
 
 Co-design of research; 
 Opportunities for researchers and junior researchers to undertake training and 
author/co-author journal and conference papers.  
 
Successful proposals will also demonstrate a strong understanding of the local research 
context and ensure the research programme does not undermine local research 
capacity. 
 
3.1.6 Data management plan  
 
Does the data management plan indicate whether the applicants have (or are likely to 
have) a sound plan for managing the research data funded through the award, taking 
account the types, scale and complexity of data being (or to be) managed o the likely 
long-term value for further research including by sharing data. 
 
3.7.1 ODA Relevance  
 
Please provide a short paragraph to explain how this research is compliant with the 
Newton Funds ODA requirements: http://www.newtonfund.ac.uk/about/what-is-oda/ 
 
 
 
   
 
 
8 
 
3.8.1 Ethics 
 
It is essential that applicants describe the ethical considerations that have informed 
the proposed research. Details of the ethical review and research governance 
arrangements that would apply to the proposal must be described. 
3.2 Pathways to impact  
It should be clear to reviewers what the likelihood is of the results of the research being 
implemented into policy and practice and how you have shaped your proposal to achieve 
this.  For instance, which partner organisations, such as relevant Ministries of Health, 
have been included in the proposal to ensure relevance and future sustainability of the 
research outcomes? 
 
• 
What changes might be implemented as a result of the study? Please identify 
practical solutions to implementing health care improvements for vulnerable 
communities in Brazil. 
• 
Who will make those changes happen and how? 
• 
Might the results be generalizable beyond the immediate research setting? 
• 
Please describe how this research will engage with in-country actors such as 
academic and non-academic stakeholders and policy makers. Research 
engagement 
strategies 
should 
reflect 
stakeholder 
priorities 
and 
any 
interventions that require government buy-in should demonstrate engagement 
with public sector actors. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
9 
 
 
4. Budget 
UK-based research costs will be funded at 80% of the Full Economic Cost. It is the 
responsibility of the Brazilian and UK PIs to ensure the conditions of their respective 
funder is understood. 
 
Full Economic Costing (FEC) 
Please see section 5. Resources – Full Economic Costing in the MRC Guidance for 
applicants for information on FEC. 
All the UK and Brazilian PI(s)/Co-I(s) must be inputted onto the Je-S form. However, any 
costs for Brazilian PI(s)/Co-I(s) (unless agreed) must be inputted with hours and 
charged as £0. A break down and justification of Brazilian costs should be included in the 
Justification of Resources template.  
Funding available 
 
MRC funding* 
Brazilian funding 
Research costs: 
 
 
Please refer to the 
costs-forma 
Staff – directly incurred post 
Yes 
 
Staff – directly allocated posts (PI 
and Co-I time) 
Yes 
 
 
 
Equipment below £10k 
Yes 
Equipment above £10k 
No 
Consumables 
Yes 
Research studentships/ assistants 
Yes 
Studentships (degree programmes) 
No 
Travel and subsistence for 
exchange/mobility activities 
Yes 
Cost of workshops, meetings etc. 
Yes 
*MRC funding will be provided to the UK HEI but can be spent on activities in Brazil 
which are outside of the funding available from the Brazilian funders, when identified and 
justified in the proposal. This must be agreed in advance of submission with the funders. 
Equipment: 
Capital costs above £10,000 cannot be funded via the Newton Fund and 
therefore any capital costs requested will not be accepted.  
Costs for “small equipment” that are considered consumables are accepted. 
   
 
 
10 
 
 
5. Joint electronic System (Je-S) 
5.1 Creating a Je-S account 
Please login to your Je-S account via 
https://jes.rcuk.ac.uk/JeS2WebLoginSite/Login.aspx, using the username and password 
you have chosen (if you do not have a Je-S account, or have forgotten your password, 
please see the guidance provided further below). 
• 
Select ‘Documents’ from left hand menu list from your Je-S account home page  
• 
Select ‘New Document’ from within the Functions/create section of your 
documents page  
Creating your Je-S application: 
All PIs and CO-Is involved in a grant project will need to be registered on Je-S. Please 
read on for information about setting up a Je-S account. 
The below ‘Call/Type/Mode’ can only be selected when the call opening date has been 
reached (until the advertised closing date Tuesday, 26 September 2017).  
All MRC funding calls close at 4pm (16:00 GMT/BST), on the advertised closing date 
Tuesday, 26 September 2017.  
• 
Select Council: MRC  
• 
Select Document Type: Standard Proposal  
• 
Select Scheme: Newton Fund 
• 
Select Call/Type/Mode (optional): UK-Brazil: Joint Health Systems Research 
Call 2017 
• 
Select ‘Create Document’ option  
 
New Je-S Users: In order to gain access to the Je-S System, Create an Account. 
Je-S users having problems successfully completing login to their Je-S account: Retrieve 
User Name / Password.  
Please telephone Je-S Helpdesk 01793 444164 should you require any 
assistance with the Je-S System 
   
 
 
11 
 
 
Project Details: Please allow a latest start date of 1 April 2018 (dates selected after this 
date should fail validation), which it does as per below: 
 
New Je-S Users: In order to gain access to the Je-S System, Create an Account. 
Je-S users having problems successfully completing login to their Je-S account: Retrieve 
User Name / Password.  
Please telephone Je-S Helpdesk 01793 444164 should you require any assistance with 
the Je-S System 
 
 
   
 
 
12 
 
5.2 Guidance for Overseas Organisations to be registered on J-S 
 
All proposals submitted to this scheme are required to include investigators based in the 
low or middle income country where the research will take place. 
All overseas researchers, investigators and their associated organisations that are 
included on your proposal, either as lead investigator or co-investigator, must be 
registered on the Je-S system. 
You need to be aware that all Overseas Research Organisations/Institutes and individual 
applicants (Principal and Co-Investigators), are required to be registered on the Je-S 
system. 
Therefore, both UK organisations and overseas organisations are encouraged to contact 
us at least two weeks before the call deadline of the 26 September 2017, so we can 
ensure that the overseas organisation (either Lead or Non-lead), has been correctly 
added to the Je-S System. Any delays could mean the proposal being rejected because 
of late submission. 
Please email the below detailed information to JeSHelp@rcuk.ac.uk The helpdesk will 
then check the Je-S database and advise you accordingly what your next steps should 
be to Je-S register your organisation and Investigators. 
Please provide the Helpdesk with the following information: 
1) The name of the overseas organisation/institute (in full) 
2) Contact name and email address at overseas organisation/institute 
3) The full postal address of the overseas institution 
4) List the departments associated with the organisation. If the 
department structure is not known or there no department structure 
please state the department as ‘Research’. 
5) Please include a web link/URL for the overseas organisation/institution 
(if available). 
 
When the overseas organisation has been added to the Je-S database, this will then 
enable the overseas applicants (PI and/or Co-Is), to create their Je-S accounts. 
Please note that each individual applicant (PI or Co-I), is required to create 
their own Je-S account, once their organisation has been added to the Je-s 
system. 
Important: Please allow sufficient time (before the call closes), E.G. 3-4 hours, to 
allow them time to login to their Je-S account, allocate the document to their own 
account and then complete the submission process. Should you require any 
assistance with the submission process, please contact the Je-S Helpdesk. 
 
 
 
   
 
 
13 
 
 
6. Assessment Process and Criteria 
The assessment panel for this scheme will consider whether applications are of world-
class standard (being intellectually innovative, well-focused and methodologically sound), 
and whether the research has the potential to make real improvement to health in low 
and middle-income countries. 
 
Peer reviewers and Panel members will be asked to comment on the following criteria in 
assessing the outline proposals: 
 
Research Quality 
 
• 
Scientific Rationale: novelty, importance and timeliness of the research and 
whether this is likely to lead to new understanding; 
• 
Has the proposal outlined a need and justification for the proposed research area 
and situated the work within an existing body of literature? 
• 
Has the proposal demonstrated engagement with relevant theoretical 
frameworks? 
 
Impact 
 
• 
Will this research generate evidence on how to strengthen and improve health 
systems for people living in Brazil? Have practical solutions to implementing 
health care improvements for vulnerable communities in Brazil been identified? 
• 
Has this research used a health systems approach to inform the delivery of 
evidence-based interventions or structural changes? Proposals must demonstrate 
how interventions relate to and affect wider elements of a health system such as 
governance, financing, health workforce, information systems, service delivery 
etc. 
• 
Will this research provide evidence that is of direct relevance to decision makers 
and practitioners in the field? 
• 
Has the proposal identified potential barriers to uptake of the research outcomes 
in the setting and proposed plans to overcome these? 
• 
Has this proposal identified key factors relevant to the potential scalability of the 
research? 
• 
What is the likelihood that the findings will be taken up and implemented? Is 
there a coherent plan for research uptake? Can the approach be scaled up; is it 
cost effective? 
 
Research Management, People and Partnership  
 
• 
The suitability of the investigator group including track record(s) of the individuals 
in their field(s) and whether they are best-placed to deliver the proposed 
research. 
• 
How have team members from different disciplines been included and how has 
their variety of input been embedded in the approach to research? (e.g. are 
methodological, social, health systems, economics, cultural issues covered?) 
   
 
 
14 
 
• 
The management strategy proposed, including equitable access to any shared 
resources and sufficient capability and time commitments of senior staff to steer 
and oversee the research. 
• 
Links with relevant local research/health institutions and involvement of 
investigators from Brazil that will build a strong and important partnership.  
• 
Have opportunities for research capacity building been embedded into research 
plans?  
 
Methodology 
 
• 
The feasibility of experimental plans, statistics, methodology and design, including 
provision of sample size calculations, strategies to avoid bias, and preliminary 
data where appropriate; 
• 
Is the design of the study appropriate to answer the question? 
• 
Is the timeline is realistic and achievable? 
• 
Has the methodology been underpinned by a relevant theoretical or conceptual 
framework. 
• 
Have major scientific, technical or organisational challenges been identified, and 
will they be tackled well? 
 
Ethics 
 
Proposals must engage with ethical and/or research governance issues, including 
whether proposed research is ethically acceptable and the appropriateness of ethical 
review and research governance arrangements. 
 
Data Management Plan  
 
Is there is a sound plan for managing the research data, taking into account the types, 
scale and complexity of data being (or to be) managed and also the likely long-term 
value for further research including by sharing data? 
 
Resources Requested 
 
Does the proposed research demonstrate good value for money? 
Are the funds requested essential and justified by the importance and scientific potential 
of the research? 
 
Official Development Assistance (ODA) compliance 
 
Research proposals must be in line with the RCUK ODA compliance. 
http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/documents/international/gcrfodaguidance-pdf/ 
The primary focus of research should be the long term sustainable growth of Brazil.  
 
 
   
 
 
15 
 
 
7. Agreements 
7.1 Collaboration Agreement 
As the research projects will be carried out by multiple research organisations and 
project partners, the basis of collaboration between the organisations and project 
partners, including ownership of intellectual property (IP) generated during the project 
and rights to exploitation, and costs of IP management [this is not an eligible cost to 
MRC], is expected to be set out in a formal collaboration agreement between the 
research organisations involved. It is the responsibility of the research organisations to 
put such an agreement in place before the research begins. The terms of collaboration 
shall not conflict with MRC and the respective FAPs terms and conditions. 
 
Arrangements for collaboration and/or exploitation must not prevent the future 
progression of academic research and the dissemination of research results in 
accordance with academic custom and practise and the requirements of the funding 
bodies. A temporary delay in publication is acceptable in order to allow commercial and 
collaborative arrangements to be established. 
 
Details of key issues included in the Collaboration Agreement, for example management 
of IP, should be detailed in the ‘consideration of ethical, governance and IP issues around 
the project’ section of the Case for Support  
 
7.2 Intellectual Property 
 
Ownership of intellectual property (IP) generated during the project and rights to 
exploitation, as well as any costs regarding management of IP, are expected to be 
agreed between the collaborating research organisations before the research begins. 
Details of this agreement should be included in the Collaboration Agreement (as above). 
 
Agreements must not conflict with MRC and the respective FAPs terms and conditions. 
Any agreements in place between a research organisation and their respective funding 
organisation must be adhered to, including the sharing of IP costs or benefits. Any IP 
sharing agreements in place between a research organisation and their national funding 
body would be expected to apply only to the IP share of that research organisation. 
 
7.3 Material Transfer Agreements 
 
Collection and exchange of material may occur between collaborating institutions, as 
necessary, in strict compliance with the legislation in effect in both countries.  
 
7.4 Ethics 
 
Any research involving humans/human tissue and/or animals must comply with 
legislation in both the UK and Brazil, and must also comply with relevant policies and 
guidance of MRC and the respective FAPs 
   
 
 
16 
 
 
It is the absolute responsibility of the PIs and the ROs to ensure that appropriate ethical 
approval is granted and adhered to, and that no research requiring ethical approval is 
initiated until it has been granted.  
 
The Ethical Information sub-sections in the Je-S proposal form should be completed to 
give details of any human participation, research using animals, genetic and biological 
risk, and ethical committee approvals required. Section 5 of the MRC Guidance for 
applicants has recently been updated to reflect amendments to this section of the Je-S 
form.  
Applicants must be clear in their applications in which country the proposed research 
involving humans and/or animals will take place and must fully complete the Ethical 
Information section for research taking place in either country. 
 
 
MRC Ethics guidance 
 
Applicants must comply with all of the MRC’s relevant policies and guidance regarding 
the use of humans/human tissue and/or animals in research.  
 
Approval(s) for the research detailed in an MRC grant proposal must be granted by the 
appropriate bodies before any work can commence. Institutions, applicants and grant 
holders have absolute responsibility for ensuring that the necessary approvals are 
granted for the research considered by MRC and the respective FAPs. 
 
The Principal Investigator/ Research Organisation must be prepared to furnish the MRC 
with a copy of the ethical approval, and any correspondence with the committees, if 
requested by the Council.  The principal investigator must notify the MRC if a regulator or 
a research ethics committee requires amendments that substantially affect the research 
question, methodology or costs to the extent that the project is no longer the same as 
that approved for funding by the MRC. 
Brazilian Ethics guidance  
The Brazilians applicants must verify the ethics guidance in their University or Research 
Institution.  
 
7.5 Humans/Human Tissue 
 
MRC guidance 
Applicants must comply with relevant MRC policies and guidance (section 5 of the MRC 
Guidance for applicants) 
In particular, applicants should be aware of the following guidance/requirements:  
MRC current policy for research involving humans to take place overseas, 
https://www.mrc.ac.uk/publications/browse/research-involving-human-participants-in-
developing-societies/ is that for research to be undertaken internationally, both local and 
UK ethical approval is required.  
   
 
 
17 
 
For clinical studies involving human participants and/or patients in the UK or overseas, 
appropriate consent must be obtained. 
Where the Brazilian partner or another third party (ANY organisation other than the UK 
RO) is responsible for recruitment of people as research participants and/or providing 
human tissue, details should be included in the case for support and a letter of support 
MUST be attached to the application. The letter of support should be titled Human 
participation and include confirmation of the following: 
• That the international partner has agreed to recruit the participants/provide 
tissue 
• That what is being supplied is suitable for the research being undertaken 
• That the quantity of tissue (where relevant) being supplied is suitable, but not 
excessive for achieving meaningful results 
 
The letter of support must be an integral part of the application (as an attachment) and 
must focus on the proposal it accompanies. 
 
Brazilian guidance for human research 
 
The Brazilians applicants must verify the guidance for human research in their University 
or Research Institution.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
18 
 
 
8. Terms and Conditions 
RCUK http://www.rcuk.ac.uk/funding/grantstcs/  
Newton Fund terms and conditions are provided below:  
 
ODA compliance 
The Newton Fund is part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA). Its aim is to 
develop science and innovation partnerships that promote the economic development 
and welfare of developing countries. The investigators must ensure the research part of 
this grant remains compliant with ODA rules and regulations as set out under the Newton 
Fund programme. In the event that the research does not remain compliant with ODA 
rules and regulations Medical Research Council reserve the right to terminate the award. 
And recoup any funds as appropriate 
 
Acknowledgements and reporting 
Investigators must acknowledge the Newton Fund and the Medical Research Council in 
any publications, web pages or events associated with this grant.  
Investigators must assist the Medical Research Council with any additional reporting 
requirements requested by the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy 
or any other government department. 
 
Starting Procedures 
This grant should start by 1 April 2018. The start of the grant may NOT be delayed 
beyond this date.  
 
Please note that due to the fixed start date, the normal three months start period rules 
outlined in the RCUK Terms and Conditions RGC4, does not apply to this project. 
 
Ethical Requirements 
It is the responsibility of the Principal Investigator and the Research Organisation to 
ensure that appropriate ethical approval is granted for this study and adhered to, and 
that no research requiring ethical approval is initiated until it has been granted.  
MRC current policy for research involving humans, 
https://www.mrc.ac.uk/publications/browse/research-involving-human-participants-in-
developing-societies/ is that for research to be undertaken overseas, both local and UK 
ethical approval is required.  
For clinical studies involving human participants and/or patients appropriate consent 
must be obtained. 
For grants that include the use of animals, the guidance 
https://www.mrc.ac.uk/publications/browse/responsibility-in-the-use-of-animals-in-
research/ must be adhered to, and in particular: 'When collaborating with other 
laboratories, or where animal facilities are provided by third parties, researchers and the 
local ethics committee in the UK should satisfy themselves that welfare standards 
consistent with the principals of UK legislation (e.g. the ASPA) and set out in this 
guidance are applied and maintained.' 
   
 
 
19 
 
The Principal Investigator/Research Organisation must be prepared to furnish the Medical 
Research Council with a copy of the ethical approval, and any correspondence with the 
committees, if requested. The Principal Investigator must notify the Medical Research 
Council if a regulator or a research ethics committee requires amendments that 
substantially affect the research question, methodology or costs to the extent that the 
project is no longer the same as that approved for funding.  
 
Government Support 
This award is dependent on continuing Government commitment for this initiative and 
continuing match from (Partner funder). In the event that this support if withdrawn, the 
Medical Research Council reserve the right to terminate the award.  
 
Requests for extensions to awards 
Due to financial restraints of the Newton Fund Programme, grant extensions will only be 
considered under exceptional circumstances (in line with the Equality Act 2010) and will 
require the Medical Research Councils’ agreement on a case-by-case basis. The Research 
Organisation remains responsible for compliance with the terms of the Equality Act 2010 
including any subsequent amendments introduced while work is in progress; and for 
ensuring that the expectations set out in the Medical Research Councils’ statement of 
expectations for equality and diversity are met. 
 
Transfer of funds to UK and overseas organisations 
It is important to highlight that the Research Organisation awarded the grant is 
responsible for the conduct and administration of the grant during the life time of the 
award (from award, during the grant and on completion). It is accountable for the 
effective use of public funds, and must therefore ensure that all grant monies are subject 
to proper financial management processes. It is the Research Organisation’s 
responsibility to ensure that, where funds are transferred to other organisations in the 
UK and abroad, expenditure is subject to robust controls to ensure value for money and 
propriety and that all costs should be fully vouched and maintained for possible 
inspection and checks by, or on behalf of, the funding organisation. 
 
This award has therefore been made on the basis that if any funds are transferred to 
another UK or overseas organisation then the Research Organisation must undertake due 
diligence checks to ensure that the funding will be appropriately used (as set out above). 
The Research Organisation may be asked to provide evidence that where funds have 
been transferred they have undertaken appropriate due diligence to ensure that any 
risks are recognised, understood and treated as necessary. The Research Organisation 
may be asked to provide additional information on how the due diligence checks were 
carried out. 
 
Please refer to the Medical Research Council for any specific guidance. 
 
Collaboration agreement 
A Collaboration Agreement is required for this project. This must be in place within six 
months of the start of the project. 
 
As the grant is associated with more than one research organisation the basis of 
collaboration between the organisations, including the allocation of resources throughout 
the project and ownership of intellectual property and rights to exploitation is required to 
   
 
 
20 
 
be set out in the formal collaboration agreement.  It is the responsibility of the lead 
Research Organisation to put such an agreement in place within six months of the start 
of the project. The terms of collaboration agreements must not conflict with the Medical 
Research Councils' terms and conditions.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
21 
 
Annex 1 
Additional questions on the use of rodents overseas 
 
The expectations of the Research Councils for the use animals in research are set out in 
the document ‘Responsibility in the Use of Animals in Bioscience Research’. Compliance 
with the principles in this document is a condition of receiving funding. 
 
Please confirm the following: (tick box – yes/no) 
 
1.   The enclosure sizes and space allocations meet or exceed those in Annex VII 
to Directive 2010/63/EU (Tables 1.1 to 1.5) 
 
2.   The rodents are provided with: a) substrate/bedding on a solid floor; b) a shelter 
and/or nesting material for refuge and to help regulate body temperature and light 
exposure; c) chew blocks or other gnawing material. 
 
3.   The rodents are housed socially. Exceptions to this must be justified below. 
 
4.   Appropriate, contemporary anaesthesia and/or analgesia is provided to minimise pain 
and distress. Any withholding of pain relief during painful procedures must be justified 
below. 
 
5.   Surgery is performed using aseptic technique, the least invasive surgical approaches, 
and appropriate perioperative care (pre-operative medications, hypothermic 
prevention, ophthalmic protection, nursing care where required). 
 
6.   Toe clipping and/or tail biopsy are not used for identification or genotyping purposes. 
 
7.   Where genotypes are known to be harmful, animals of that type are not produced 
unless required scientifically (e.g. if homozygous null is harmful and heterozygotes 
are desired, then heterozygous is crossed with wild type, not another heterozygous 
animal). 
 
8.   Where new GA strains are being generated, best knowledge will be applied to predict 
potential harmful outcomes and the animals will be monitored closely for emerging 
phenotypes. 
 
9.   The rodents are monitored with a frequency appropriate to keep pain and distress to a 
minimum, using appropriate, tailored welfare indicators and score sheets. 
 
10. Humane endpoints have been established for each experiment with the potential to 
cause moderate or severe harm, after consultation with the veterinarian and animal 
care staff, and implementation of these is recorded during the experiment. (Note the 
humane endpoint criteria may be requested by the Research Councils). 
 
11. The methods of humane killing are those recommended by the AVMA (2013) or 
permitted under Directive 2010/63/EU. 
 
 
Where there are deviations from the above, please explain below: (free text; one side of A4) 
 
