
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY CALL 
Edital CONFAP/FAPEAL/MCI No 06/2017  
 
 
 
The first round opens for applications on June 12th, 2017 and will close on August 10th, 2017.  
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated through the Brazilian National Council of State  
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal offering support to researchers from 
Brazil, based in Brazilian higher education and research institutions, who are willing to working in 
research in Italy, in collaboration with local colleagues. 
The present call is based on the Cooperation Agreement between CONFAP and the University of 
Bologna, acting as Technical Secretariat of the network of Italian Universities. 
The objective of the agreement is to facilitate and support effective collaboration between the Parties for 
scientific, technological and innovation cooperation, through the mobility between the two countries of 
PhD students, Master students (Mestrado or Laurea Magistrale students) and post-docs.  
The call offers support for researchers in Brazil through Scholarships. 
The Scholarship Awards offer an opportunity for researchers associated to universities and research 
institutes in Brazil to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups through research 
collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the best research groups in Italy.  
This call, launched by CONFAP, may be complemented by specific Guidelines issued by each one of the  
participating FAPs. 
Such specific Guidelines must be consulted before preparing a proposal. The FAPs associated to this call 
are listed in section 6. 
1 Eligibility   
 
1.1. Eligible researchers based in universities and research institutions from the Brazilian States 
participating in this call are: 
a) PhD students  
b) Master students   
  
 
 
 
2 
 
c) Post-doctoral  researchers  
1.2. The supporting FAPs, listed under section 6 of the present call, may require additional eligibility 
criteria, which will be announced in their respective guidelines, in association with this call. 
Applicants must consult their respective FAPs before starting to prepare a proposal. 
1.3. All applicants must have a supervisor associated to a university in Italy.  
1.4. Eligible host institutions in Italy are indicated in the MCI website, under the section dedicated to 
academic opportunities for Brazilian candidates: 
http://www.mci.unibo.it/en/brazilian-candidates/academic-opportunities 
2 Support offered 
2.1. Support is offered in the form of Scholarship Awards, which may include different funding 
components, according to the Guidelines of the respective FAPs supporting this call.  
2.2. The support offered within the present call will include: 
a) For Master Students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
b) For Doctoral students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
c) Post-doctoral research. 
2.3. No tuition fees will be charged by any side for any exchange mobility. 
2.4. The values of the monthly scholarships will be indicated in the specific Guidelines issued by the 
respective FAPs which support the present call. (listed under Item 6 of the present call) 
2.1 Additional requirements 
a) In case of mobility in the frame of projects with potential commercial value and from which 
industrial and intellectual property rights may arise, the host and the sending institutions are 
required to sign a specific collaboration agreement settling these matters. Such specific 
collaboration agreements will take into account applicable national legislations and international 
conventions. 
3 How to Apply 
 
a) For researchers outside the State of São Paulo applications are available at: http://sigconfap.ledes.net 
(available from the 12th of June 2017).  
  
 
 
 
3 
 
b) Researchers from the State of São Paulo must send proposals directly to FAPESP. Please follow the 
specific guidelines for FAPESP at : http://www.fapesp.br/en/11043 
 
 For further information, please contact confap.mci@gmail.com  
4 Timeline 
 
Announcement 
June 12nd, 2017 
Deadline for submission 
August 10th , 2017 
Results 
September 18th, 2017 
 
5 Selection criteria  
5.1. All applications will be assessed through a peer review process carried out by each of the 
participating FAPs, according to the following criteria: 
a) 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
b) 
The academic performance and specific requirements of the participating FAPs. 
c) 
The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
d) 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
e) 
The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Italian host organization in the area 
of proposed research.  
5.2. Each participating FAP may announce its specific selection criteria in their respective Guidelines 
associated to this call.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
4 
 
6 Supporting FAPs: 
 
The following Brazilian State Funding Agencies support the present call: 
- 
Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
- 
Pernambuco- FACEPE 
- 
Federal District - FAPDF  
- 
Alagoas - FAPEAL 
- 
Amapá - FAPEAP 
- 
Amazonas - FAPEAM 
- 
Goiás - FAPEG 
- 
Maranhão  - FAPEMA 
- 
Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
- 
Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
- 
Piaui - FAPEPI 
- 
Rio Grande do Sul - FAPERGS 
- 
Rio De Janeiro - FAPERJ 
- 
Rio Grande do Norte - FAPERN 
- 
Espírito Santo - FAPES 
- 
Bahia - FAPESB 
- 
Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
- 
São Paulo - FAPESP 
- 
Pará - FAPESPA 
- 
Paraíba - FAPESQ 
- 
Sergipe - FAPITEC 
- 
Tocantins - FAPT 
- 
Mato Grosso do Sul – FUNDECT 
 
7. Critérios Específicos da FAPEAL 
 
1. Pesquisadores elegíveis baseados em universidades e instituições de pesquisa dos 
estados brasileiros participantes desta convocação são: 
 
 
  
 
 
 
5 
 
a) estudantes de doutorado 
b) estudantes de mestrado 
c) pesquisadores pós-doutoriais. 
 
2. Do apoio FAPEAL 
a) Para alunos dos cursos de mestrado e doutorado sediados em Alagoas: Será 
destinado apoio para o estágio sanduíche nos padrões seguidos pelo CNPq e CAPES e 
nos limites orçamentários da FAPEAL; 
b) Os estudantes de mestrado e doutorado deverão estar regiamente matriculados e 
apresentar a anuência de seus respectivos orientadores e coordenadores de curso. 
c) Para docentes interessados em estágios de pós-doutorado: Será apoiado somente 
um (1) docente-pesquisador vinculado a Programas de Pós-Graduação strictu senso 
acadêmicos sediados em Alagoas e (2) segundo os padrões seguidos pelo CNPq e 
CAPES e nos limites orçamentários da FAPEAL. 
d) O professor interessado em apoio ao estágio de pós-doutorado deverá apresentar 
anuência do respectivo coordenador do curso e da Pró-Reitoria da Universidade. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
1 
 
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY CALL 
Edital CONFAP/FAPEAL/MCI No 06/2017  
 
Critérios Específicos da FAPEAL 
 
1. Pesquisadores elegíveis baseados em universidades e instituições de pesquisa dos estados 
brasileiros participantes desta convocação são: 
 
a) estudantes de doutorado 
b) estudantes de mestrado 
c) pesquisadores pós-doutorais. 
 
2. Do apoio FAPEAL 
a) Para alunos dos cursos de mestrado e doutorado sediados em Alagoas: Será destinado 
apoio para o estágio sanduíche nos padrões seguidos pelo CNPq e CAPES e nos limites 
orçamentários da FAPEAL; 
b) Os estudantes de mestrado e doutorado deverão estar regiamente matriculados e apresentar a 
anuência de seu respectivo orientador e coordenador de curso. 
c) Para docentes interessados em estágios de pós-doutorado: Será apoiado somente (1) 
docente-pesquisador vinculado a Programas de Pós-Graduação strictu senso acadêmicos 
sediados em Alagoas e (2) segundo os padrões seguidos pelo CNPq e CAPES e nos limites 
orçamentários da FAPEAL. 
d) O professor interessado em apoio ao estágio de pós-doutorado deverá apresentar anuência do 
respectivo coordenador do curso e da Pró-Reitoria da Universidade. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
