
 
 
 
1 
 
 
MOBILITY CONFAP ITALY CALL 
 
The call opens on August 27th 2019 and will close on October 21st, 2019.  
Brazilian State Funding Agencies (FAPs), articulated through the Brazilian National Council of State  
Funding Agencies (CONFAP), are launching a call for proposal offering support to researchers from Brazil, 
based in Brazilian higher education and research institutions, who are willing to working in research in 
Italy, in collaboration with local colleagues. 
The present call is based on the Cooperation Agreement between CONFAP and the University of Bologna, 
acting as Technical Secretariat of the network of Italian Universities. 
The objective of the agreement is to facilitate and support effective collaboration between the Parties for 
scientific, technological and innovation cooperation, through the mobility between the two countries of 
PhD students, Master students (Mestrado or Laurea Magistrale students) and post-docs.  
The call offers support for researchers in Brazil through Scholarships. 
The Scholarship Awards offer an opportunity for researchers associated to universities and research 
institutes in Brazil to develop the strengths and capabilities of their research groups through research 
collaboration and reciprocal visits with a partner in some of the best research groups in Italy.  
This call, launched by CONFAP, may be complemented by specific Guidelines issued by each one of the 
participating FAPs. 
Such specific Guidelines must be consulted before preparing a proposal. The FAPs associated to this call 
are listed in section 6. 
 
 
1.1. Eligible researchers based in universities and research institutions from the Brazilian States 
participating in this call are: 
a) PhD students  
b) Master students   
c) Post-doctoral  researchers  
  
 
 
 
2 
 
1.2. The supporting FAPs, listed under section 6 of the present call, may require additional eligibility 
criteria, which will be announced in their respective guidelines, in association with this call. 
Applicants must consult their respective FAPs before starting to prepare a proposal. 
1.3. All applicants must have a supervisor associated to a university in Italy.  
1.4. Eligible host institutions in Italy are indicated in the MCI website, under the section dedicated to 
academic opportunities for Brazilian candidates: 
http://www.mci.unibo.it/en/brazilian-candidates/academic-opportunities 
 
 
2.1 
Support is offered in the form of Scholarship Awards, which may include different funding 
components, according to the Guidelines of the respective FAPs supporting this call.  
2.2 
The support offered within the present call may include: 
a) For Master Students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
b) For Doctoral students, support offered exclusively for research periods; 
c) Post-doctoral research. 
2.3 
No tuition fees will be charged by any side for any exchange mobility. 
2.4 
The values of the monthly scholarships will be indicated in the specific Guidelines issued by the 
respective FAPs which support the present call. (listed under Item 6 of the present call) 
2.5 
Additional requirements:  
In case of mobility in the frame of projects with potential commercial value and from which 
industrial and intellectual property rights may arise, the host and the sending institutions are 
required to sign a specific collaboration agreement settling these matters. Such specific 
collaboration agreements will take into account applicable national legislations and international 
conventions. 
 
 
a) Applications must be sent within the 21st of October 2019, through the link: https://sigconfap.ledes.net/.   
b) Researchers from the States of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Pernambuco and Minas Gerais must send 
proposals within the c
above and also directly to: 
  
 
 
 
3 
 
 
São Paulo - FAPESP: www.fapesp.br/13116 
 
Rio de Janeiro  FAPERJ, available through the link:  
http://www.faperj.br/downloads/Chamada_Mobility_Italy_Confap.pdf 
 
 
Pernambuco - FACEPE: http://agil.facepe.br/  
 
Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG: https://fapemig.br/pt/chamadas_abertas_oportunidades_confap/ 
 
For further information, please contact confap.mci@gmail.com  
 
 
Announcement  
August 27th, 2019 
Deadline for submission 
October 21st, 2019 
Final results published by CONFAP 
December 16th, 2019 
 
 
 
 
a) 
The quality of the proposed research project. 
b) 
The academic performance and specific requirements indicated by the participating FAPs. 
c)         The academic performance of the supervisor at the host institution. 
d) 
The record of accomplishment of the applicants, and the host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
e) 
The expected benefits for the career development of the Applicant.  
f) 
The record of accomplishment and suitability of the Italian host organization in the area of 
proposed research.  
5.2 
Each participating FAP may announce its specific selection criteria in their respective Guidelines 
associated to this call.  
 
 
  
 
 
 
4 
 
 
 
The following Brazilian State Funding Agencies support the present call: 
 
1. Paraná - Fundação Araucária 
2. Pernambuco - FACEPE 
3. Federal District - FAPDF 
4. Alagoas  FAPEAL 
5. Amazonas - FAPEAM 
6. Goiás - FAPEG 
7. Maranhão - FAPEMA 
8. Mato Grosso - FAPEMAT 
9. Minas Gerais - FAPEMIG 
10. Rio Grande do Sul  FAPERGS 
11. Rio de Janeiro - FAPERJ 
12. Espírito Santo - FAPES 
13. Bahia - FAPESB 
14. Santa Catarina - FAPESC 
15. São Paulo - FAPESP 
16. Paraíba - FAPESQ 
17. Mato Grosso do Sul - FUNDECT 
 
