
 
1 
 
CNPq/CONICYT Call for Applications Nº 17/2016 
 
 
I – CALL FOR APPLICATIONS  
 
 
The Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development – CNPq and the 
Chilean National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research - CONICYT renders public 
the present Call and invites interested researchers to apply for this Program in line with the terms 
set herein and in conformity with the following REGULATIONS attached, integrant part of this Call. 
 
I.1 – OBJECTIVE    
 
This Call aims to select research proposals in order to financially support projects able to 
significantly contribute to: 
 
a) 
the improvement of the quality of life of the elderly and their surroundings through 
research on the ageing process in Brazil and Chile;  
b) 
the formulation of public policies for the aging population in Brazil and Chile; 
c) 
the scientific and technological development and innovation of the countries, according 
to the Cooperation Agreement between the CNPq and CONICYT; 
d) 
the strengthening of bonds between researchers of both countries in the proposed field; 
e) 
the achievement of scientific and technical results on a global level; and 
f) 
the promotion of mobility and development of researchers in the beginning of their 
careers through joint research projects;  
 
I.1.2 –The proposals will be developed jointly by teams of both countries and must comply with the 
specific conditions set out in Part II – REGULATIONS, attached to this Call, which determines the 
requirements of the applicant, schedule, financial resources to be applied to approved proposals, 
source of funds, fundable items, eligibility criteria, objective parameters and criteria of evaluation 
and other information deemed as necessary.   
 
I.2 – PRESENTATION AND SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS 
 
I.2.1 – Proposals must contain all necessary documents and should be sent to CNPq exclusively 
ONLINE, through the Online Proposal Form, available on the Carlos Chagas Platform. 
 
I.2.2 – Proposals must be sent to CNPq by 11:59PM of the deadline date (Brasília time), described 
in the subsection II. 1.2 – SCHEDULE of REGULATIONS 
I.2.2.1 – Support through the e-mail address atendimento@cnpq.br or telephone at 55. 61 3211 
4000 will only be available up to 6:30PM and this will not be accepted as justification for 
applications submitted after the deadline.  
I.2.2.2 Applicants will receive, after completing the submission, an electronic receipt of her/his 
proposal, which shall serve as a proof of the submission.  
I.2.3 – Proposals must be submitted in conformity with what is described in the subsection II.2 
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA – of REGULATIONS, strictly containing all the items proposed in the Call. 
I.2.4 – The file containing the research project must be generated outside of the Online Proposal 
Form and attached to it, in “pdf” file format, not exceeding 2Mb (five megabytes) 
  
 
2 
I.2.5 – If it makes itself necessary the usage of images, graphics, etc, to better clarify the argument 
of the proposal, one should be careful not to compromise the capacity of the file, for proposals that 
surpass the limit of 2Mb will not be accepted by the electronic system of CNPq. 
I.2.6 – CNPq will not accept any proposals submitted by any other means, nor after the final 
submission deadline. 
I.2.7 – It will only be accepted one proposal per applicant. 
I.2.8 – If an applicant submits a second proposal during the application period, it will replace the 
first proposal. The last submitted application will be the one considered in the analysis. 
I.2.9. – If the submission of identical proposals is identified, the following actions will take place: 
a) if it transpires that the proposals are from the same applicant, only the latest version sent 
shall be considered; 
b) if the identical proposals were sent by different applicants, both proposals will be 
disqualified.  
 
I.3 – ADMISSION, ANALYSIS AND EVALUATION 
 
The selection of proposals submitted to CNPq, in compliance to this Call, will be executed based 
on analysis and comparative evaluations. For such, the following stages are established:  
 
I.3.1 – Stage I – Evaluation by CNPq’s and CONICYT’s Staffs  
 
1.3.1.1 –  At this stage, CNPq’s and CONICYT’s staffs will analyze the proposals according to their 
conformity with the provisions set out in the items in REGULATIONS, relating to the subsection 
II.1.4 – FINANCIABLE ITEMS, and the subsections II.2.1 – AS FOR THE APPLICANT AND 
SUPPORT TEAM and II.2.3 – AS FOR THE EXECUTION ESTABLISHMENT, of the ELIGIBILITY 
CRITERIA. Proposals that do not meet the requirements of this Public Call will not be forwarded to 
the scientific merit evaluation, carried out by ad hoc experts. 
 
1.3.2 – Stage II – Review by ad hoc Experts 
 
1.3.2.1 – This stage, previously authorized by CNPq’s Executive Board – DEX and CONICYT, will 
consist on a profound analysis of the qualified demand, regarding scientific merit and relevance of 
proposals, to be carried on by specialists which will have pronounced themselves on the topics 
related to the subsection II.2.2 – AS FOR THE PROPOSAL of the ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA and 
II.3 – EVALUATION CRITERIA, of the REGULATIONS attached. 
 
I.3.3 –Stage III – Analysis, Judging and Classification by the Binational Judging Committee  
 
I.3.3.1 – At this stage, the proposals will be evaluated and classified according to the analysis of 
the previous stage and the ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, listed in the subsection II.2.2 – AS FOR THE 
PROPOSAL, and of EVALUATION, stated in the subsection II.3., of REGULATIONS, which will 
pointed out by the Binational Judging Committee. 
 
I.3.3.2 – The final score of each project shall be assessed in conformity with what is established in 
the item II.3 – EVALUATION CRITERIA of REGULATIONS. 
 
  
 
3 
I.3.3.3 – After scientific merit and relevance analysis of each proposal and adequacy of to its 
budget, the Committee, within its budgetary limitations stipulated by the Executive Board of CNPq 
and CONICYT¨s Executive Director, may recommend: 
 
 
a) Approval, with or without budget adjustments/cuts; or 
b) No approval.  
 
I.3.3.4 – The budget cuts of projects must not surpass 30% of the solicited value to CNPq. 
 
I.3.3.5 – If the Committee suggests budget cuts higher than this value, the project will be 
automatically disqualified from the competition.  
 
I.3.3.6 - The Judging Committee's position about the proposals, within the established evaluation 
criteria, will be registered on Electronic Sheet, containing the outline of the judged proposals, 
recommended and not recommended, with its respective final score, in decreasing order, as well 
as other pertinent information and recommendations.  
 
I.3.3.7 – All the evaluated proposals will be object of a unified technical position, containing the 
justifications for its recommendation or no recommendation.  
 
I.3.3.8 – The members of the committee will electronically sign a Review Report .  
 
I.3.3.9. – The researcher that has submitted proposals to this Call or that is participating on the 
research team must not integrate the Judging Committee. 
 
I.3.3.10 – It is forbidden to the Committee’s members: 
a) To evaluate projects which there would be conflict of interests; 
b) To share, before the official announcement of CNPq and CONICYT, the results of any 
evaluation; 
c) To make copies of projects; 
d) To discriminate fields of research or lines of thought; 
e) Not to take into account, without justified reason, into his/hers recommendation, the standings 
of the ad hoc consultants; 
f) 
To misrepresent the meaning of the content of the standings of the ad hoc consultants; 
g) To issue a position in a recourse against a decision in which the Comitte’s member was the 
rapporteur; 
h) To behave him/herself as the representative of an institution or a region. 
  
I.3.4 – Stage IV  – Analysis by the Executive Board of CNPq and CONICYT 
 
  
 
4 
All proposals analyzed by the Binational Judging Committee will be submitted to CNPq’s and 
CONICYT’s Executive Boards, which shall issue their final decision regarding its approval, noted 
the budgetary limits of this Call. 
 
I.4 – SELECTION RESULTS 
 
I.4.1 –The list of proposals approved with financial resources of the present Call will be published 
on CNPq and CONICYT’s websites – available on the Internet in http://www.cnpq.br/ and 
http://www.conicyt.cl/ - and, in the Brazillian case, published the Brazilian Official Journal (DOU). 
 
I.4.2 – All applicants will be able to access their proposal’s evaluation, names and identification of 
the evaluators will be withheld. 
 
I.5 – RECONSIDERATION REQUESTS 
 
I.5.1 – If the applicant has a justification to contest the results of the proposal’s judgment, it will be 
possible to submit a request in specific online form, available in the Carlos Chagas Platform 
(http://carloschagas.cnpq.br), within 10 (ten) days of the release of results on CNPq and 
CONICYT’s websites, and the availability of the positions on the Carlos Chagas Platform, in 
conformity with this Council’s APPELLATIVE RULES.  
 
1.5.2 – The request shall be directed to the Permanent Commission of Recourse Analysis – 
COPAR, which, after examination, shall submit the result for final analysis of the CNPq’s Executive 
Board.  
 
I.5.3 – The 10-day deadline will exclude the first day and consider the closing day, and it will 
consider consecutive days. 
 
I.5.4 – The deadline only starts and ends in working days at CNPq. 
 
I.6 – SUPPORT FOR APPROVED PROJECTS BY CNPq 
 
I.6.1 – Approved projects will be supported, by the Brazilian part, as Individual grants, registered 
under the name of the Brazilian team Coordinator, upon signature of the ACCEPTANCE TERM OF 
FINANCIAL SUPPORT. 
 
I.6.2 – The appointment of the ACCEPTANCE TERM will be subordinated to the previous existing 
Technical Cooperation Agreement, celebrated between the institution hosting the project and 
CNPq, as stated in the guidelines of this Council. 
  
I.6.3 – The event of any default(s) being held by the awardee with Federal, State, or Municipal 
Public Administration, direct or indirect both, will constitute a hampering factor to the project’s 
hiring. 
 
I.7 – CONCESSION ANNULMENT BY CNPq 
 
I.7.1 – Financial support may be cancelled during the projects’ implementation period by CNPq’s 
Executive Board of Directors due to justified severe facts, without prejudice of other appropriate 
actions. 
 
  
 
5 
I.8 – PUBLICATIONS 
 
I.8.1 – Scientific publications and any other form of disclosure of the research supported by this 
Call of Applications must acknowledge, obligatorily, the support of CNPq, CONICYT and of other 
financially supporting institutions/ government bodies. 
 
I.8.2 – ADVERTISING ACTIVITY relating to projects and works financed by the Union resources 
must rigorously observe the provisions that rule such kind of activity. 
 
I.9 – JUDICIAL REVIEW OF THE CALL AT CNPq 
 
I.9.1 – The permission to judicially contest the rules of this Call will decay two business days before 
the deadline of proposals submissions. 
 
I.9.2 – It will not be accepted judicial contests after the judging stage, which had already been 
accepted without any objection for failures or defects. 
 
I.9.3 – The judicial review request must be sent to CNPq’ Executive Board of Directions, via e-mail, 
to the following address: presidencia@cnpq.br  
 
I.10 – CALL’S REVERSAL OR ANNULMENT AT CNPq 
 
The present Call may be canceled or annulled, entirely or in part, either due to unilateral decision 
of CNPq’s Executive Board, or due to legal request and/or in the interest of the public 
administration, based on motivated decision, with no obligation to repair any amends.  
 
I.11 – SPECIAL AUTHORIZATIONS 
 
The awardee is exclusively responsible for taking all necessary procedures in order to obtain ethic 
and legal authorizations and permissions to execute her/his project. 
 
I.12 – GENERAL DISPOSITIONS 
 
I.12.1 – The publication of scientific articles resulting from supported projects should be performed, 
preferentially, at open access magazines. 
 
I.12.2 – During the fellowship’s period, all and any communication of the Brazilian Coordinators 
with CNPq must be done through electronic mail with the General-Coordination of International 
Cooperation – CGCIN, via the following e-mail address: cgcin@cnpq.br. In similar manner, during 
the fellowship’s period, all and any communication of the Chilean coordinators with CONICYT must 
be done through electronic mail with CONICYT’s International Cooperation Programs 
Coordination, via the following e-mail address: skakimova@conicyt.cl. 
 
I.12.3 – Any changes related to the projects’ execution must be requested to CNPq by its 
coordinator, accompanied by a justified reason, it being required authorization before its execution. 
 
I.12.4 – At the end of their activities, the Brazilian coordinator must present the provision of 
accounts and technical reports, in conformity with what is established in the ACCEPTANCE TERM 
and other CNPq’s rules.  
 
  
 
6 
I.12.5 – During its execution period, the project will be accompanied and evaluated, in all its 
stages, in conformity with what is established in the ACCEPTANCE TERM.  
 
I.12.6 – It is allowed to CNPq and CONICYT, during the execution period of the project, to promote 
technical visits or solicit additional information envisioning the enhancement of the Monitoring and 
Evaluation system. 
 
I.12.7 –The information generated with the implementation of the selected proposals and made 
available in the CNPq and CONICYT´s database must be considered of public access, 
contemplating the dispositions below: 
I.12.7.a) –  Projects submitted to this Call, as well as any technical reports presented by 
researchers and/or awardees to CNPq, that contain information regarding ongoing projects, will 
have restricted access up until the decision act regarding the final approval by CNPq. (Law 
12,527/2011 November 18, 2011, article 7, paragraph 3, and Decree 7,724/2012 May 16, 2012, 
article 20); 
I.12.7.b) – Researchers whose projects submitted to CNPq, approved or not, and/or presented its 
technical reports which may generate, in totality or partially, results potentially object to Innovation 
Patent, Utility Model, Industrial Design, Computer Program or any other form of Intellectual 
Property registry and analogous must explicitly manifest its interest on restricting the access in the 
occasion of the submission of the project and/or technical report. 
I.12.7.b1) – The obligations of confidentiality and restriction of public access provided for in the 
previous clause will subsist for the period of 5 (five) years from the restriction request. 
I.12.7.b2) – In the weight of the possibility of restriction of access, it is not reduced, however, the 
responsibility with which the researchers, its teams and institutions hold, as members of the 
research community, to maintain, whenever possible, the results of the research, data and 
collections at the disposal of other researchers for academic purposes. 
I.12.7.c) – The parties must make sure that each and everyone of its employees, staff, public 
agents and outsourced staff, which have access to information of restricted access, have agreed to 
comply with the obligations of restriction of access to information. 
 I.12.7.d) – CNPq will dispose, to its own criteria, the primary information of all its projects, such as: 
title, abstract, object, proponent(s), executing institutions and resources applied by the body. 
 
I.12.8 – If the project’s results or report in itself came to have commercial value or could lead to the 
development of a product or method involving the establishment of a patent, the exchange of 
information and right’s withhold, in each case, will be determined according to what is established 
in the Innovation Law (Law number 10,973 December 2nd, 2004), ruled by the Decree 5,563 
October 11, 2005, on the Law of Industrial Property (Law number 9,279 May 14, 1996) and by the 
internal norms of CNPq that rule the matter. 
 
I.12.9 – The present Call regulate itself by the precepts of public law inserted in the caput of the 
article 37 of the Brazilian Federal Constitution, by the dispositions of the Law number 8,666/93, for 
what is applicable, and specially by the internal rules of CNPq. 
 
 
  
 
7 
 
I.12.10 – THE CLARIFICATIONS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING THE 
CONTENT OF THIS CALL AND THE COMPLETION OF THE ONLINE PROPOSAL FORM, AS 
WELL AS THE LEGISLATION THAT RULES THIS CALL, CAN BE OBTAINED IN THE ITEMS 
II.5 AND II.6 OF REGULATIONS 
 
 
I.13- RESERVE CLAUSE 
 
The Executive Board of CNPq holds the right to resolve instances of non-applicability and cases 
not detailed herein this Call. 
 
 
 
 
Brasília, 12 August 2016. 
  
 
8 
 
CNPq/CONICYT Call for Applications Nº 17/2016 
 
 
II - REGULATIONS 
 
The present REGULATIONS aims to define which activities are to be financially supported and the 
conditions for the implementation of such support, through the selection, per Call, of proposals for 
the execution of projects. 
 
II.1 – AS FOR THE SPECIFIC PROVISIONS  
 
II.1.1 – OF THE OBJECT 
 
Supporting joint research, development and Innovation projects (P&D&I), within CNPq 
(BRAZIL)/CONICYT’s (CHILE) Cooperation, addressing to the topic of “population ageing" in the 
scope of social and applied sciences and health sciences that seek to contribute to the 
improvement of public policies. 
 
II.1.1.1 – EXPECTED RESULTS  
 
i) The scientific and technological investigation projects to be financed in the scope of this call shall 
conduct to a newfound knowledge or applications through work hypothesis made explicit in the 
project;  
ii) The projects shall contribute for the strengthening of international cooperation by the means of  
joint publications and disclosure activities;  
iii) The projects shall contribute for the qualification of high-level human resources, through 
mobility, developed thesis in the scope of the project, among others.  
 
II.1.2 – SCHEDULE 
 
Activities 
Date 
Release of the Call on the Brazilian Official Journal (DOU) 
and CNPq’s website  
August 12nd, 2016 
Limit date for proposals’ submission 
September 26th , 2016  
Disclosure of results on the Brazilian Official Journal (DOU) 
and CNPq’s website 
October 31st, 2016 
Support for the approved proposals by CONICYT  
November/ December 2016 
Support for the approved proposals by CNPq 
February 15th  2017 
 
 
  
 
9 
 
II.1.3 – FINANCIAL RESOURCES  
 
II.1.3.1 – Each Funding Agency finances researchers in their country, with the equivalent amount 
of financial resources. 
II.1.3.2 –  By the Brazilian side, the approved proposals are to be financed with resources on the 
estimated global value of R$ 1,050,000.00 (One million and fifty thousand reais), according to the 
budgetary and financial availability of CNPq. The total approved value of the Call must not exceed 
20% in capital expenditure. 
 
II.1.3.3 – By the Brazilian side, Projects will have the maximum value of up to R$ 525,000.00 (Five 
hundred and twenty five thousand reais) for capital expenditure and costing. The resources, by 
project, assigned to capital expenditures must not exceed 20% of the project’s total value. 
 
II.1.3.4 –  CNPq’s Executive Board will be able to, in the case of an eventual identification of 
additional resources for the Call, decide for adjustments to the global value mentioned on II.1.3. 2.  
 
II.1.4 – FINANCEABLE ITEMS BY CNPq 
 
II.1.4.1 –  Resources of the present Call are going to be designated to the financing of costing and 
capital items, embracing: 
II.1.4.1.1 –  COSTING: 
a) consumables, components and/or reposition parts of equipments, software, installation, 
recuperation e maintenance of equipments; 
b) outsourced services – full or partial payment of maintenance contracts and outsourced services, 
private individual or legal person, of eventual character; 
c) accessory expenses, especially those of importation and of necessary installations to the 
adequate functioning of equipments (check subsections II.1.4.3 and II.1.4.4); 
d) national and international airline tickets (Brazil/Chile/Brazil) and per diem for participants of the 
Brazilian team, according to the “Per Diem Rates for Individual Aid and Short Term Fellowships”. 
The national and international airline tickets should be acquired in economy class; 
e) contracting health insurance for each participant of the Brazilian team traveling abroad, in the 
maximum value of R$ 250.00 per month ; 
II.1.4.1.1.1 – Any payments towards natural persons must be done accordingly with the current 
legislation. 
II.1.4.1.1.2 – The work force employed in the project’s execution will not have a bond of any nature 
with CNPq, and will not be able to demand from this body any payments, remaining this the sole 
responsibility of the project’s executing Coordinator/ Institution. 
II.1.4.1.1.3 – The total value solicited for costing items described in the subheadings “a” and “c” 
should be included in the field “costing” of the Online Proposals Form. 
II.1.4.1.1.4 – The values of tickets and per diems should be included in fields of same name of the 
aforementioned form, following the instructions there contained. 
  
 
10 
II.1.4.1.1.5 –  The calculation of the value of the per diems must comply with CNPq’s  per diems 
for Individual Assistance and Short Term Fellowships on the Country and Abroad Chart 
(http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/1318146), for missions 
of up to 30 (thirty) days of duration, performed within the execution period of the project. 
II.1.4.1.1.6 –  Eventual participations of members of the Brazilian team, that do not hold a PhD’s 
Degree, as beneficiaries of costing items must be previously approved by CNPq, upon analysis of 
the corresponding justification and work plan. 
II.1.4.1.2 –  CAPITAL: 
a) equipments and permanent material; 
b) bibliographical material. 
II.1.4.1.2.1 – Items of capital will be allocated in the project’s executing institution under the 
responsibility, maintenance and safekeeping of the project’s executing Institution/ Coordinator. 
II.1.4.2  - Are forbidden the expenses with: 
a) badges, folders and similar, certificates, ornamentation, cocktail, dinners, concerts or artistic 
manifestations of any nature; 
b) routine expenses such as electricity, water, telephone, mail, reprographics and similar bills, to 
be understood as obligatory counterpart expenses of the project’s execution institution; 
c) payment of administration fees, of management, in any capacity; 
d) building construction works (except the ones involving installations and necessary adaptations 
for the adequate functioning of equipments, which must be justified in the detailed budget of 
the proposal – subsection II.2.2), are to be understood as of obligatory counterpart of the 
project’s execution institution; 
e) acquisition of automotive vehicles, location and expenses with fuels of any kind; 
f) 
payment of salaries or wage complementation of technical and administrative staff, or any 
other advantages for public institution’s personnel (Federal, State and Municipal);  
g) payment, at any capacity, to active public official for provided services, including consultancy, 
technical assistance or similar, at the account of any resource sources. 
h)  Payment, at any capacities, to private companies that have active public servant in its 
corporate structure, or employee of public company or public-private society, for provided 
services, including consultancy, technical assistance or similar. 
II.1.4.2.1 – Other expenses shall be taken care of by the applicant/project’s execution institution, at 
the capacity of counterpart. 
II.1.4.3 – For hiring or acquisition of goods and services, legal and constitutional principles must be 
observed, as well as norms of CNPq’s PROVISION OF ACCOUNTS. 
II.1.4.4 – When applicable, the proposal must include the accessory expenses due to the 
importation of equipments, permanent materials and consumables. 
  
 
11 
II.1.4.5 – CNPq does not answer for the supplementation of resources to manage expenses 
derived from any external factors outside of its control, such as currency fluctuation. 
II.1.4.6 – When dealing with INNOVATION projects, within the terms provided on the Innovation 
Law (Law nº 10.973/2004), there could be provided operational or administrative expenses, in the 
sum of up to 5% of the approved values. 
 
II.1.5 – PROJECT’S EXECUTION PERIOD 
 
II.1.5.1 – The proposals to be supported by the present Call shall have its maximum execution 
period established within 24 (twenty four) months. 
 
II.1.5.2 – Exceptionally, the project’s execution period might be extended, upon grounded request 
by the Coordinator  and accepted by CNPq’s Executive Board and CONICYT. 
 
II.2 – ELEGIBILITY CRITERIA  
 
a) 
The eligibility criteria stated below are obligatory. 
 
b) 
To comply with them is considered mandatory for the proposal’s exam, its framework, 
analysis and judgment. Proposals that do not meet the requirements of this Public Call will 
not be forwarded to the scientific merit evaluation, carried out by ad hoc experts.  
 
c) 
The absence or insufficiency of information about any of them may result in the proposal’s 
disqualification.  
 
II.2.1 – AS FOR THE PROPONENT AND BRAZILIAN SUPPORT TEAM: 
 
II.2.1.1 – The proponent will be the Brazilian team project Coordinator who will be responsible for 
the submission of the binational proposal. 
 
II.2.1.2 – The proponent must meet, obligatory, the requirements below: 
a. hold PhD’s Degree and have its profile registered at the Lattes Platform, updated up to 
the submission of the proposal; 
b. be, obligatorily, the project Coordinator; 
c. to have a formal bond with the project’s execution institution. A formal bond is to be 
understood as all and any form of existing bonding between the proponent, private 
individual, and the project’s execution institution. In case of inexistence of functional or 
employment bond, the bond will be characterized by means of official documents that 
state agreement between the proponent and the project’s execution institution for the 
development of research and/or study activity, document such expedited by competent 
authority of the institution. This document should be in power of the proponent, not 
being necessary the shipment to CNPq; and  
d. not coordinate more than one proposal submitted to this Call. 
 
II.2.1.3 – In the act of presenting a proposal, the applicant assumes the commitment of 
maintaining, during the project’s execution, all the conditions of qualification, habilitation and 
reputation needed for the perfect accomplishment of its object, preserving updated her/his 
registration data with the competent registries. 
 
II.2.1.4 – The technical team may be constituted by researchers, students and technicians. Other 
professionals may integrate the team as collaborators. 
  
 
12 
 
II.2.1.5 – Only to be included in the project’s team are those who have provided formal written 
concurrence, which must be kept under the guard of the project’s coordinator. 
 
II.2.1.6 – It is obligatory that the members of the Brazilian technical team, characterized as 
researchers, to have their resumes registered at the Lattes Platform. 
II.2.2 –  AS FOR THE PROPOSAL: 
II.2.2.1 – Proposals must be presented in the form of a research project, written exclusively in 
ENGLISH LANGUAGE. It is recommended the exhibition of the following information, so as to 
make possible the adequate judgment by the Judging Committee: 
a) 
Summary of the project, to be presented both in English and Portuguese versions; 
b) 
Table of contents with key-words, goals, approach and expected results;  
c) 
Research Background and Goal; 
d) 
Research Infrastructure for this Project; 
e) 
Characteristic equipment and facilities for carrying out this Cooperative Project; 
f) 
Approach; 
g) 
Expected outcome; 
h) 
Synergies created by the joint research activity; 
i) 
Research plan; 
j) 
Research Networking plan; 
k) 
Budget plan for the project; and 
l) 
Curriculum vitae of research team members. 
II.2.2.2 – At the end of this Regulations section, is the model for the project. (Annex I) 
II.2.2.3 – The project will be developed jointly by teams of both countries. 
II.2.2.4 – The project must be clearly characterized as a scientific, technological or innovation 
research and should be only once presented, solely to the Brazilian part, by the Brazilian 
Coordinator. CONICYT will receive from CNPq copies of proposals for evaluation and procedures. 
II.2.2.5 –  The proponent must attach to the proposal the Statement of Prior Informed Consent. At 
the end of this Regulations section is the model for the Statement of Prior Informed Consent. 
(Annex II) 
 
II.2.2.6 – In addition to the project and the Statement of Prior Informed Consent, the proponent 
must attach to the proposal a document provided by the Chilean coordinator entitled "Letter of 
Institutional Support." (Annex III). This document must be attach attached in the "Letter of 
Acceptance by the foreign institution" in the submission form. (This Document must signed by the 
legal representative of the Chilean institution which belong the foreign coordinator). 
 
II.2.2.7 – It is recommended the existence of other partnerships with institutions that develop 
scientific, technological and innovation activities, located in Brazil or other countries, known as “co-
executing” or “collaborators”, in conformity with the constant Glossary in this present Call. 
 
II.2.2.8 – In addition, the expected coverage of items to be financed by established agreement 
between CNPq and the funding foreign institution, referenced in the Constant charter of the 
subsection II.1.5, it is advisable for the proposal to display the existence of support of other 
  
 
13 
national or foreign institutions, denominated as “”national co-funding institution” or “foreign co-
funding institution”, in the form of funding resources or research infrastructure, effectively 
necessary for the project’s execution. 
 
II.2.3 –  AS FOR THE BRAZILIAN EXECUTING INSTITUTION 
 
II.2.3.1 – The national executor institution is the one where it will be developed the research project 
and with which the proponent shall present bond and will be, from now on, known as “National 
Executing Institution”, being either: 
a) institution of higher education, public or private without profit motives;  
b) institute and research and development center, public or private, without profit motives;  
c) public company that executes research activities in Science, Technology or Innovation.  
 
II.2.3.1.1 – The project’s executing institution must be constituted under Brazilian law and have its 
headquarters and administration on the Country. 
 
 
II.3 – EVALUATION CRITERIA 
 
II.3.1 – The following are the criteria for the classification of proposals as far as technical-scientific 
merit and its budget adequacy: 
 
 
Analysis and judgment criteria 
Weighted 
score 
Grade 
A 
Scientific Merit of the Proposal: definition and relevance of the 
objectives research, the scientific basis, methodology to be 
used, relevance of the expected contribution the field of 
knowledge 
that 
the 
proposal 
falls, 
adequacy 
presented schedule and budget requested. 
3 
0 to 10 
B 
Excellence of the research team: qualification of the researchers, 
adequacy of team members to the objectives and activities 
research project, scientific and technological production, orientation 
students and time available to work on the project 
3 
0 to 10 
C 
Benefits and pertinence of international cooperation. 
3 
0 to 10 
D 
General expected results: conjoint publications, human resources 
qualification, socio-economic impacts and other mutual benefits that 
may be generates from this international cooperation. 
3 
0 to 10 
E 
Coherency and adequacy between the qualification/ experience of 
the investigation teams involved in the project and the activities and 
objectives set for the project. 
2 
0 to 10 
F 
Budgetary adequacy and existence of additional sources of funding. 
1 
0 to 10 
G 
Physical infrastructure, available in the participant institutions and 
support conditions for the project’s execution and infrastructure and 
support team compatibility with the project’s research plan. 
1 
0 to 10 
 
II.3.2 – For grade stipulation it will be possible the usage of up to two decimal places. 
 
  
 
14 
II.3.3 – The final score of each project will be determined by the weighted average of the scores 
attributed to each item. 
 
II.3.4 – In the event of a tie, it will be used the criteria referent to the letters A, B ,C and D, in this 
order of priority, within the provided criteria in II.3.1. 
 
II.4 – FINAL EVALUATION/ PROVISION OF ACCOUNTS  
II.4.1 – The project Coordinator must refer in specific online Form, in the period of up to 60 (sixty) 
days after the end of the projects’ validity, in conformity with the ACCEPTANCE TERM and other 
rules of CNPq. 
II.4.1.1 –  The financial provision of accounts, with the presentation expense receipts, in conformity 
with the rules of PROVISION OF ACCOUNTS available in the electronic address 
http://cnpq.br/prestacao-de-contas1; and  
II.4.1.2 –  A final technical report, with the detailing of all activities developed during the project’s 
execution and the registry of all occurrences that had an effect on its development. 
II.4.2 –  When requested by CNPq, the Coordinator must fulfill the monitoring and evaluation form 
of the approved research project. 
 
II.5 – CLARIFICATIONS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE CONTENT OF THE 
CALL AND FILLING OF THE ONLINE PROPOSAL FORM AND LEGAL PROCEDURES  
 
II.5.1 – Clarification and additional information regarding the content of this Call can be obtained by 
sending a message to the e-mail address: coped@cnpq.br 
 
II.5.2 – Support to proponents regarding technical difficulties on filling the Proposal Form will be 
realized through the e-mail address atendimento@cnpq.br 
 
II.5.3 – In case of the appearance of doubts or difficulties on filling items of the Proposal Form, the 
support service will be carried out through the telephone 55. 61 3211 4000 from Monday to Friday, 
from 08h30 AM to 06h30 PM. 
  
 
15 
 
II.6 – OF THE AFOREMENTIONED LEGISLATIONS: 
 
TERM 
DEVICES and LEGISLATION 
ADVERTISING ACTIVITY 
Caput and 1st paragraph of article 37 of the Federal Constitution 
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/constituicao/ConstituicaoCompila
do.htm 
i. IN/SECOM-PR n° 02, 16 of 
December 2009 
http://www.secom.gov.br/sobre-a-
secom/institucional/legislacao/instrucoes-normativas 
INDIVIDUAL AID 
 
RN 017/2011 
http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-
/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/25480 
BIDDING LAW 
Law 8.666/1993 
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/leis/l8666cons.htm 
INNOVATION INOVAÇÃO 
Innovation Law 10.973, 02 of December 2004 
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_Ato2004-
2006/2004/Lei/L10.973.htmhttp://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_Ato2
004-2006/2004/Lei/L10.973.htm 
LDO 
Law 12.708, 17 of August 2012  
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/_Ato2011-
2014/2012/Lei/L12708.htm 
INTELECTUAL 
PROPERTY 
RN-013/2008 
http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-
/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/24829 
SPECIFIC 
RULES 
OF 
FELLOWSHIPS 
RN-029/2012 – Fellowships Abroad 
http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-
/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/515690 
RULES OF APPEAL 
RN 006/2009 
http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-
/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/25041 
CONSTITUTIONAL 
PRINCIPLES 
Caput  and 1st heading of art. 37 of the Federal Constitution 
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/constituicao/ConstituicaoCompila
do.htm 
LEGAL PRINCIPLES 
 
Law  9.784,  29 January 1999, Art. 2 
http://www.planalto.gov.br/ccivil_03/Leis/L9784.htm   
ACCEPTANCE TERM 
RN 018/2011 revoking RN 024/2006 
http://www.cnpq.br/web/guest/view/-
/journal_content/56_INSTANCE_0oED/10157/25465 
PROVISION OF 
ACCOUNTS AND 
RESOURCE UTILIZATION 
MANUAL 
http://www.cnpq.br/documents/10157/d6b5ae87-42ab-4b4c-85f6-
838fedda953d 
 
II.7 Informations about the analysis, financial resources invested, financeable items, 
eligibility criteria for the proposer, team and institutions adopted by CONICYT can be found 
in the application call document (bases concursales) at http://www.conicyt.cl/pci. Consultations 
to CONICYT can be done through OIRS platform at https://oirsvirtual.conicyt.cl/. 
  
 
16 
II.8 – COORDINATION RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CALL  
The Coordination responsible for the monitoring of the present Call, Brazilian side, is the General-
Coordination of International Cooperation – CGCIN.  
Annex I - Structured model of a project.  
Annex II - Statement of Prior Informed Consent.  
Annex III - Letter of Institutional Support 
 
GLOSSARY 
 
Classification of Participant Institutions 
 
 
1.  National executing institution: It is the national institution of higher education and research and 
development centre, public or private, without lucrative motives, or public company, project leader, 
to which is bounded to the Brazilian coordinator that forwards the proposal and is responsible for 
the project’s execution, being the primary beneficiary of the financial resources. 
2.  Partner Institution: It is the institution of foreign promotion, with which CNPq maintains bilateral 
cooperation agreement envisioning the funding of joint international cooperation activities in 
science, technology and innovation, for example, the FNRS (Belgium), the CNRS (France), the 
NSF (USA) and the CONICET (Argentine), between others listed in II.1.1.1. 
3.  Foreign executing institution: It is the foreign research institution, project leader, to which is 
bounded the foreign coordinator, located at the Partner Institution. 
4.  Co-funding institutions (national or foreign): Corresponds to national or foreign institution(s) 
which will take part on the project’s funding, allocating financial research infrastructure resources, 
executing or not parts of the project. 
5.  Co-executing institutions (national or foreign): Corresponds to other national or foreign 
institution(s) of higher education and research and development centre, public or private, involved 
on the project’s execution, but do not characterize as co-funding. 
6. Collaborative institutions (national or foreign): Other national or foreign institutions involved on 
the project’s execution, but do not characterize as co-funding neither as co-executing, 
corresponding to the following types: 
a) technical institutions of support to development of small size business activity, class 
associations, confederations, cooperatives and institutions aiming for the development, diffusion 
and technical assistance; 
b) companies the develop innovative projects or aggregate technology, being those public, private, 
micro enterprises or small size companies 
c) technical units or public law entities of State and Municipal governments; 
d) companies of public, private or public-private initiative;  
e) OSCIP (Civil Societies Organizations of Public Interest); 
f) non-governmental research organizations; and 
g) entities’ consortium without lucrative motives. 
 
