
 
BBSRC-Newton Fund Call for Virtual Joint Centres with Brazil, 
China and India in Agricultural Nitrogen.  
 
Following a Town Meeting on 11 March 2015 BBSRC is excited to announce that along with 
partners in Brazil, China and India we will shortly be launching a call for bilateral working 
between the UK with either Brazil, China or India. 
 
BBSRC, working with NERC, has Newton Funds to support the establishment of Virtual Joint 
Centres with Brazil, China and India in Agricultural Nitrogen. This funding will be matched by 
partner organisations’ contributions in the three countries. 
 
Scientific Scope 
 
The three research themes that have been identified for this call are:  
 
• 
Agronomic nitrogen use efficiency: optimising farm practices and soil 
management to make more effective use of fertilisers and reduce losses of reactive 
nitrogen to the environment; 
 
• 
Biological nitrogen use efficiency: improving the efficiency of nitrogen uptake or 
metabolism by plants; 
 
• 
Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF):  enhancing nitrogen-fixation in legumes or 
exploiting the potential of BNF in non-leguminous plants 
 
Integrative, multidisciplinary and multi-scale approaches are encouraged, and there is 
particular scope for interaction between plant, agricultural and environmental scientists, and 
N use in the context of the global nitrogen cycle at the interface between the remits of 
BBSRC and NERC.   
 
The Virtual Joint Centre Approach 
 
A Virtual Joint Centre is essentially a large research grant that has additional flexibility to 
enable support to deliver the partnership and to enable existing resources to be allocated to 
the project.  Activities that could be included within a Joint Centre include:  
 
• 
Joint research projects between researchers at the partner centres in agreed 
research areas  
• 
Laboratory exchanges including short and longer term visits, exchange of graduate 
students, post-doctoral researchers or visiting fellows.  
• 
Sharing of key resources across the partner centres  
• 
Supporting wider activities to strengthen links, for example holding symposia, 
workshops, seminars, meetings etc.  
• 
Equipment that will support the joint research  
 
 
 
 
 Further Details 
 
The full call text will provide more information about the scientific scope, scale and 
instructions on how to construct and submit an application. It may also indicate specific 
priorities for the three countries. 
 
A report detailing the main outcomes from the Town Meeting along with the presentations 
that were delivered can be found within the application download section of this page. We 
anticipate announcing the full call text on 27 April 2015.   
 
 
Contact 
BBSRC and NERC Newton Fund 
Newton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk  
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
GUIDANCE FOR APPLICANTS 
 
Virtual Joint Centres in Agricultural Nitrogen with  
Brazil, China or India 
 
 
Closing Date: 22 July 2015, 4pm UK time 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brazilian FAPs participating in this call are:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTENTS: 
 
Section 
Page(s) 
4TUSummaryU4T  
2 
4TUBackgroundU4T  
2-3 
4TUNewton Fund and ODA ComplianceU4T 
3 
4TUVirtual Joint Centre ApproachU4T 
3-4 
4TUResearch Themes / Scientific ScopeU4T  
4-6 
4TUHow to Apply: Eligibility; Submission Process; 
Documents RequiredU4T  
6-10 
4TAssessment4T  
10-11 
4TTimetable4T 
11 
4TContacts and Help4T  
11 
4TAnnex 1: Additional Guidance for working with Brazil 4T 
12-13 
4TAnnex 2: Additional Guidance for working with India 4T 
14 
4TAnnex 3: Additional Guidance for working with China 4T 
15 
 
Contact: 4Tnewton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk4T 
 2 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Summary: 
 
BBSRC, NERC and Newton Fund partners in Brazil (CONFAP), India (DBT) and China0T 
are 0Tdelighted to announce a call for Virtual Joint Centres in Agricultural Nitrogen.  This call 
forms part of BBSRC’s and NERC’s Newton Fund activities and therefore requires projects 
to address Overseas Development Assistance (ODA) objectives alongside their scientific 
aims. 
 
Information contained within this document is aimed at UK applicants and complements 
the 4TBBSRC Grants Guide4T and 4TNERC Grants Handbook4T which should be read alongside it.  
 
Specific guidance on working with each country, including contact information, 
priority areas, and scope and scale of proposals, is provided within the Country 
Annexes (pages 12 to 15).   
 
Applications are invited to enable bilateral research activities in the form of Virtual Joint 
Centres with one of Brazil, China or India of up to three years in duration.  Individual 
researchers may develop multiple proposals, but all submitted proposals should address 
bilateral working between researchers in the UK and academic partners in Brazil or China or 
India.   
 
Please note that the assessment process may involve an interview step. If applicable, 
interviews for UK applicants will be scheduled for week commencing 19 October 2015 
(precise date to be confirmed), to be held in Swindon or London. Interview dates for 
individual proposals will be confirmed by the BBSRC Office. Submission of an application 
will be taken to mean that the UK Principal and/or Co-Investigator(s) will be available 
to attend an interview on any of the specified dates and will make a commitment to 
attend if selected.  
 
For this call a combined total of circa £10M is available from BBSRC and NERC to support 
the UK components of bilateral working across the three countries. It is envisaged that the 
funding will be divided equally between the three countries, subject to demand and the 
quality of applications received. See Annexes 1-3 for additional information relating to the 
anticipated number of Virtual Centres / scale of funding for each country. 
 
Further details relating to eligibility, application process, scientific scope, Newton Fund, ODA 
and the Virtual Joint Centre approach are described below and in Annexes 1-3. 
 
Background: 
 
There is a pressing global need to optimise nitrogen use in agriculture to address societal, 
economic and environmental challenges of food security and sustainability, in the face of a 
growing world population and associated pressures on resources compounded by climate 
change. 
 
To reduce emissions of potent greenhouse gases to the atmosphere, and pollution and 
eutrophication by run-off to water, a balance must be struck between the provision of 
adequate nitrogen to maximise crop yields, and the release of excess reactive nitrogen to 
the environment as nitrous oxide, ammonia or nitrate. 
 
Account must be taken of both current high use of synthetic nitrogen fertilisers - 
manufactured by a very energy-consuming process - in intensive agricultural systems, and 
 3 
 
the contrasting needs of lower-income nations where soil fertility and crop yields are 
nitrogen-limited because fertiliser is unaffordable or not available. 
 
Within this call the funding partners seek to explore ways to sustain or improve current levels 
of crop production with lower energy inputs and reduced environmental impacts, and wish to 
encourage innovative research which will lead to the production of high yields of crops with 
lower inputs of nitrogen fertiliser.   
 
A Town Meeting was held in London on 11 March 2015 which helped to inform the 
development of this call.  A report and presentations from this meeting are available 
(4Thttp://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/nitrogen4T) but the call is open to all eligible researchers (see 
eligibility, below).  Attendance at the Town Meeting is not a requirement for funding.  
 
NEWTON FUND AND ODA COMPLIANCE 
 
The Newton Fund is a new initiative intended to strengthen research and innovation 
partnerships between the UK and emerging knowledge economies. It was launched by the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer in April 2014, and will deliver up to £375M of funding over five 
years. 
 
The Fund forms part of the UK’s Official Development Assistance (ODA) commitment which 
is monitored by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). ODA 
funded activity focuses on outcomes that promote the long-term sustainable growth of 
countries on the OECD Development Assistance Committee list. Newton Fund countries 
represent a sub-set of this list. 
 
More information about the Newton Fund can be found 4There4T. 
 
RCUK guidance on ODA compliance can be found 4There.4T   
 
VIRTUAL JOINT CENTRE APPROACH 
 
Virtual Joint Centres have been selected as an approach to encourage the development 
and/or strengthening of UK research partnerships with Brazil, China and India to enable 
collaborative research and strategic relationships.  Funding is available to support mobility 
and exchange of researchers to augment the planned research programmes and support 
capacity-building and training activities. 
 
A Virtual Joint Centre is not a physical entity, but an agreed collaboration and way for 
working together. Partners recognise that different approaches may be required to address 
specific scientific needs.  
 
A Virtual Joint Centre should include a core research programme supported by a range of 
partnering activities.  Where applicable, project partners should align existing resources and 
infrastructure to augment the research programme thereby building new links or 
strengthening existing links.  The output from the Virtual Joint Centre should be the delivery 
of exciting new research and strengthened bilateral strategic relationships between the UK 
and partner countries. 
 
The types, and combinations, of activities which can be supported in a Virtual Joint Centre 
are intended to be fairly flexible so that applicants can select the most appropriate activities 
and ways of working to support their research programme.   
 
Some exemplar activities are outlined below; it is not expected that all types of activities 
would be included within an individual Virtual Joint Centre proposal. 
 4 
 
 
Activities that could be potentially supported by a Virtual Joint Centre include: 
 
 Joint research projects between researchers at the partner centres in agreed 
research areas; 
 Laboratory exchanges including short and longer term visits by academics, post-
doctoral researchers or visiting fellows.  Exchanges of post graduate students 
(funded from other sources) are also possible with Brazil and China.   
 Establishment of honorary faculty positions at collaborating institutions to enable 
established researchers to conduct joint research in collaborators’ laboratories and 
contribute to teaching / training activities; 
 Sharing of key resources across the partner centres; 
 Development of robust interfaces for data management and data sharing across the 
partner centres; 
 Supporting wider activities to strengthen links, for example holding symposia, 
workshops, seminars, meetings etc.; 
 Equipment that will support the joint research project. For UK academics this will 
need to be in-line with 4TWakeham guidelines4T and must not be over the level at which it 
would then be considered capital expenditure. 
 
RESEARCH THEMES/SCIENTIFIC SCOPE 
 
The Funders aim to support innovative basic, strategic or applied research that will enable 
crop production to be enhanced in ways that make appropriate use of fertilisers (or potential 
alternative sources of nitrogen) to optimise yields, while maintaining the quality of soil, water 
and air, and reducing adverse impacts on terrestrial, freshwater and marine ecosystems. 
 
Increasing food security is a complex and multifactorial global challenge. One aspect on 
which emphasis has been recently placed is Sustainable Intensification (SI)P0F1
P, which aims to 
combine the production of food (or other agricultural products) with improved resource use 
efficiency (inputs of nutrients, energy and water) and better environmental (and social and 
economic) outcomes.   
 
New advances in bioscience, precision agriculture and phenomics, coupled with 
improvements in agronomy, and understanding nitrogen cycles at a range of scales, 
including the global scale, offer the potential to optimise nitrogen application rates and 
develop management practices tailored to specific environmental conditions and crop 
species.  Such advances make more effective management of nitrogen use within farming 
systems a valid and timely target for SI approaches to global food security.  
 
Areas of research that might feature in proposals for Virtual Joint Centres are summarised in 
three themes below.  They span a spectrum of basic, strategic and applied research with 
potential for application on a range of spatial and/or timescales.   The themes are not 
intended to be prescriptive or exclusive and proposals that cut across themes would be 
welcomed.   
 
Additional information relating to specific scientific priorities for working with Brazil, 
China or India is provided in Annexes 1 to 3, pages 12 to 15. 
 
A. 
Agronomic nitrogen use efficiency:  optimising farm practices and soil management 
to make more effective use of fertilisers and reduce losses of reactive nitrogen to the 
                                                           
1 http://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/web/FILES/Reviews/1409-sustainableagriculture-workinggroupreport.pdf 
 5 
 
environment and help mitigate against environmental impacts associated with this 
loss. 
 
Possible approaches might include: 
 
 Precision farming tools to identify optimal nitrogen requirements of individual crops in 
particular environments and tailor fertiliser applications accordingly; 
 Plant-mediated biological inhibition of nitrification using crop varieties that reduce 
losses of nitrous oxide by releasing suppressors of soil nitrification activity. 
 
B. 
Biological nitrogen use efficiency:  improving the efficiency of nitrogen uptake or 
metabolism by plants. 
 
Possible approaches might include: 
 
 Developmental, e.g. modification of root architecture to enhance nitrogen acquisition; 
 Genetic, e.g. identification of traits for “nitrogen economy” or efficient uptake from 
low-nitrogen environments; 
 Biochemical, e.g. manipulation of aminotransferase enzymes; 
 Physiological, e.g. relationships between nitrogen availability, uptake and 
metabolism, and plants’ responses to nitrogen stresses, and their effects on nitrogen 
use efficiency, yield and stress tolerance; 
 Microbiological, e.g. understanding and manipulation of biogeochemical cycling in the 
rhizosphere or the role of mycorrhizal fungi in nutrient uptake. 
 
C. 
Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF):  enhancing nitrogen-fixation in legumes or 
exploiting the potential of BNF in non-leguminous plants. 
 
Possible approaches might include: 
 
 Enhancing nitrogen fixation in legumes; 
 Understanding and exploiting BNF by endophytic diazotrophic bacteria associated 
with non-leguminous plants; 
 Transferring BNF capability of legumes to non-leguminous plants. 
 
 
Taking an integrated, more holistic approach to develop Virtual Joint Centres 
 
Proposals for joint centres should be predominantly in BBSRC’s remit, but some aspects of 
the proposed activities are expected to appropriately fall within the remits of other Research 
Councils.  New agricultural or biotechnological ways of addressing the nitrogen challenge 
should be considered in their environmental (locally and at the landscape scale), social and 
economic contexts. 
 
Integrative, multidisciplinary and multi-scale approaches are encouraged, and there is 
particular scope for interaction between plant, agricultural and environmental scientists, and 
on nitrogen use in the context of the global nitrogen cycle, at the interface between the 
remits of BBSRC and NERC.  Options for future nitrogen use should also be viewed in the 
context of the global nitrogen cycle, and their potential impacts on ecosystems and the 
broader environment if widely adopted. 
 
The extension of molecular understanding from the laboratory to crops in the field is needed 
in order to benefit agriculture by enhancing production and mitigating adverse impacts in 
ways that are sustainable and economically viable.   
 
 6 
 
It is envisaged that proposals for joint centres will involve not just researchers who currently 
work on nitrogen, but also others, with relevant skills, whose expertise could be brought to 
bear on the nitrogen challenge.  They might draw on plant, microbial or soil scientists with 
interests in related underpinning areas such as soil microbiology, plant-microbe interactions, 
root development or molecular genetics of plant-nutrient interactions, as well as the 
agricultural and environmental research communities and, where appropriate, other relevant 
disciplines such as engineering, informatics or mathematics.  Integration of genetics (in its 
broadest sense) or biotechnology with agronomy or ecology to optimise relationships 
between agricultural output and its environmental impacts is particularly encouraged. 
 
 
HOW TO APPLY 
 
Eligibility 
 
Standard BBSRC and NERC managed mode eligibility conditions apply to this call. All UK 
applicants must be eligible to receive research funding from BBSRC or NERC as 
Principal/Co-Investigator; see the 4TBBSRC Grants Guide4T  and / or the 4TNERC Grants 
Handbook. 
 
Applicants should also ensure that overseas collaborators fulfil the eligibility requirements for 
working with the relevant country. For further details please see Annexes 1 to 3 below or 
contact:  
Brazil: The relevant participating State Funding Agencies are listed in Annex 1.  
Relevant Contacts: CONFAP: 4Tfundonewton@confap.org.br4T and 
FAPESP: 4Twww.fapesp.br/nitrogen4T 
 
China: Gisela Tebbutt 4TGisela.Tebbutt@rcuk.cn4T 
 
India (DBT):  Dr Shailja Gupta (4TShailja.Gupta@nic.in4T) and Dr Sanjay Kalia 
(4Tsanjay.kalia@nic.in4T)  
 
Principal Investigators are responsible for ensuring that they, and any Co-Investigators 
included on the application, are eligible. Applications involving any ineligible applicants 
(UK or partner country) will result in the whole application being rejected. 
 
Please note that given the nature of this call, the following BBSRC schemes will not apply: 
New Investigator; Industrial Partnership Awards and Industrial LINK.   BBSRC and NERC 
will not fund studentships as part of this call (but funds may be requested for exchanges of 
students supported from other sources).   
 
Application Process 
 
Eligible researchers from the UK wishing to apply to this call should submit an application to 
BBSRC using the Je-S system.  
 
Applications may involve researchers from multiple eligible UK institutions, but should be 
submitted as a single Je-S application submitted by the organisation of the lead UK Principal 
Investigator. Separate/joint proposals are not permitted for this call. If successful, the lead 
organisation would be the recipient of the award, and would be responsible for managing 
and distributing the finances for the partnership in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the award. 
 
 7 
 
Additional specific instructions for working with Brazil, China or India are provided in 
the individual Annex for each country. 
 
 
How to submit your application 
 
1. Log in to your Je-S account. 
 
2. From the left hand menu, select Documents. 
 
3. Under functions on the Main Menu, select Create New Document.  
 
4. In the Add New Document screen: 
a. Select Council: BBSRC 
b. Select document type: Standard Proposal 
c. Select scheme: Newton Fund 
d. Select Call / Type Mode: Nitrogen Newton Fund 
 
 
e. Select: Create Document  
 
The Je-S form should for the most part be completed in the standard way using the guidance 
and help text available in the Je-S system. Please also note the following guidance which is 
specific to this call: 
 
5. The start date of the grant should be 01 January 2016.  
 
6. The Other Support section is not relevant to this application. Please tick the box 
indicating “not relevant to the application”. 
 
7. Proposal classifications are non-mandatory fields and should be completed as follows:  
a. Research Area – Please choose at least one from the list available  
b. Qualifiers – Please leave this section blank.  
c. Free-text Keywords – Please identify at least five (and a maximum of eight) 
keywords relevant to the project. 
 
The deadline for applications is 22 July 2015, 4pm UK time. 
 
Resources  
 
One single Je-S application (proforma) should be submitted per project using Full Economic 
Costing (fEC). Only costs for the UK component of the application should be submitted in the 
Resources section of the Je-S application; information about overseas collaborators and 
associated in-kind contributions should be submitted in the project partner section of the 
Je-S proforma, and in the relevant attachments including the Case for Support and 
Justification of Resources documents.   
 
Please include all relevant UK costs in the Resources section of the BBSRC Je-S 
application, taking particular care to include sufficient costs to enable partnering aspects 
(workshops and exchanges) of the Virtual Joint Centre such as travel and subsistence in 
addition to salary (Investigators and PDRAs) and consumables.   
 
 8 
 
1. Travel and Subsistence: To support partnering activities, requests for costs associated 
with travel and subsistence will be supported at 100% fEC. To request these costs at 
100% fEC, please tick the “Exception” box in Je-S for each travel and subsistence line 
item you request. Costs under all other fund categories/headings will be reimbursed at 
the standard rates, which is typically 80% fEC. Please note that any equipment 
requested would be funded in line with Wakeham rules, see the guidance in section 5 of 
the Grants Guide for further 
details: 4Thttp://www.bbsrc.ac.uk/web/FILES/Guidelines/grants-guide.pdf4T. 
 
2. Social Survey: This section is non-mandatory. Please leave this section blank.   
 
3. Other DA Costs for Research Facilities/Existing Equipment: Please ensure you 
specify clearly in the description field if you are requesting the use of any of the following 
BBSRC facilities: 
 ARCHER 
 National Wind Tunnel Facility 
 Research Data Facility (RDF) 
 The Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC) 
If this is the case, a Technical Assessment Form of attachment type “Facility Form” must 
also be uploaded with your application.   
 
Applicants wishing to use a NERC facility will need to submit a mandatory ‘technical 
assessment’ with their proposal (including aircraft but excluding ships and HPC); this will 
require a quote for the work which the facility will provide. A full list of the Facilities 
requiring this quote can be found 
here: 4Thttp://www.nerc.ac.uk/research/sites/facilities/apply/ 4T in the section ‘NERC grant 
applications involving NERC facilities’. This assessment must be uploaded with your 
application. 
 
 
 
Documents Required 
 
Applicants will need to ensure that they have uploaded all the mandatory documents 
required by the Je-S system before they will be able to submit their application through Je-S.  
 
The BBSRC Je-S application (proforma) must include the additional documents, described in 
the table below: 
 
 
No. Document 
Type 
 
Description 
How the document 
relates to the Case for 
Support 
1 
Case for 
Support 
A joint Case for Support, covering the 
entire project including both the UK and 
partner country, should be submitted 
using the specific Case for Support 
template document provided.   
 
For all countries:  The Case for Support 
must be written in English and prepared 
using: 
 
 
Ariel font or sans serif equivalent 
with a minimum of font size 11 
(excluding text in diagrams and work 
plans); 
N/A 
 9 
 
 
a minimum of single-line spacing 
and standard character spacing; 
 
margins must not be less than 2cm. 
 
Applicants must adhere to the page 
limits and section headings within the 
Case for Support template. 
 
For some countries, overseas funding 
agencies will also require an identical 
Case for Support to be submitted 
separately to them by their applicants.  
Please refer to the individual country 
annexes for further guidance. 
 
The joint Case for Support must be 
completed on the specific Virtual Joint 
Centre Case for Support template – see 
the download section for the relevant 
Case for Support template for working 
with Brazil, China or India. 
 
2 
Justification 
of 
Resources 
(JoR) 
 
Your Justification of Resources should 
provide a breakdown and full written 
justification of the costs covering the 
entire project, including both the UK and 
partner country (up to 2 sides of A4).  
  
 
Text should be identical to 
that submitted within the 
“Justification of Resources 
Section”, of the Case for 
Support. 
 
3 
Pathways to 
Impact 
Statement 
 
Please provide a Pathways to Impact 
statement, referring to the Je-S help for 
guidance (up to 2 sides of A4).   
The information provided 
within the “Significance 
and Impact Section” of the 
Case for Support should 
be a starting point for the 
Pathways to Impact 
Statement.  
4 
Data 
Management 
Plan 
 
Please provide a Data Management 
Plan, referring to the Je-S help for 
guidance (up to 1 side of A4).   
Text may be extracted 
from the “Management of 
the Virtual Joint Centre” 
within the Case for 
Support. 
5 
CVs for 
Applicants 
 
Please provide a single combined PDF 
document containing a CV for all 
applicants involved in the project, 
including UK and partner country 
applicants, referring to the Je-S help for 
guidance (up to 2 sides of A4 per 
applicant).   
CVs may be extracted 
from within Section C of 
the Case for Support.  
 
6 
Other 
Attachment 
This is a non-mandatory attachment. 
Please do not use this upload type. 
N/A 
7 
Letter of 
Support 
 
An official Letter of Support (up to two 
sides of A4) from the lead Investigator’s 
Head of Department / Institute Director 
or equivalent should be provided.   
 
The letter should confirm the lead 
organisation’s commitment to the 
N/A 
 10 
 
proposed Virtual Joint Centre and 
highlight any additional support that will 
be made available.   
 
Where relevant, the letter should 
describe how the proposed Virtual Joint 
Centre aligns with the Organisation’s 
Strategic Aims.  
8 
Cover Letter 
The covering letter should be a 
maximum of two pages of A4 and 
should set out the nature of the 
proposed collaboration and provide 
information regarding collaborative 
activities between the project’s research 
partners.  
N/A 
9 
Facility 
Form 
Please use this section to provide a 
Technical Assessment Form if your 
project requests access to BBSRC or 
NERC facilities, referring to the Je-S 
help for guidance. 
N/A 
10 
Workplan 
 
Please provide a diagrammatic 
workplan, referring to the Je-S help for 
guidance (up to 1 side of A4).   
The Workplan should be 
identical to that submitted 
within the Case for 
Support.  
11 
Head of 
Department 
Statement 
Please refer to the Je-S help for 
guidance on whether this attachment is 
necessary for your application. 
N/A 
12 
Non-UK 
Components 
Please refer to the individual country 
annexes for further guidance.  
 
 
 
 
ASSESSMENT 
 
Brazil and India 
 
Following submission, BBSRC and named partner organisations will undertake parallel and 
independent peer-review processes in accordance with standard in-country practice.  To be 
funded proposals must be of an equivalent standard to that normally expected to be funded 
by each funding organisation.  
 
The recommendations from the interview stage will be taken forward for bilateral discussions 
with partner organisations in Brazil and India. A positive recommendation of support from 
each funding body is required in order for a joint award to be made. (See Annexes 1 and 2 
for additional information). 
 
China 
 
BBSRC will lead on the administrative and peer review of this call with additional input and 
support from China.   
 
UK 
 
Within the UK, the assessment process may potentially include an interview step and 
therefore the UK Principal Investigator and / or a nominated Co-Investigator may be invited 
for interview by an assessment panel in Swindon or London during the week commencing 
19 October 2015 (precise dates to be confirmed).  Applicants should ensure they are 
 11 
 
available during this week. Further details will be provided at least 3 weeks before the 
interview date. 
 
As the primary focus of this call is to develop and enhance research partnerships, 
applications will not be sent to external reviewers.  The BBSRC Assessment Panel will have 
the requisite expertise to undertake a thorough and robust peer review of the applications 
which, together with the outcomes from the interview stage, will form the basis for future 
discussions with partner organisations. 
 
Assessment Criteria 
 
Key assessment criteria for the applications include: 
 
 Design and feasibility of the Virtual Joint Centre proposal; 
 Previous experience of research teams; 
 Scientific rationale: novelty, importance and timeliness of the joint research 
proposal; 
 Research partnership development: including strength and clarity of 
collaborations and opportunities provided;  
 Quality of the project structure proposed (including governance, arrangements 
for data management and sharing and management of intellectual property);  
 Added value of the joint research partnership; 
 Quality and suitability of the research environment and of the facilities; 
 Significance and impact of the research partnership; 
 Capacity building potential; 
 ODA compliance and value for money. 
 
TIMETABLE 
 
Call Opens 
18 May 2015 
Call Closes 
22 July 2015 
Interviews for Shortlisted UK applicants (tbc) 
w/c 19 October 2015 
Joint Panels to agree outcome 
November 2015 
Virtual Joint Centre activities to commence 
1 January 2016 
 
CONTACTS AND HELP 
 
For BBSRC and NERC enquiries: 4Tnewton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk4T 
 
 Brazil  
The relevant participating State Funding Agencies are listed in Annex 1 
CONFAP: 4Tfundonewton@confap.org.br4T 
FAPESP: 4Twww.fapesp.br/nitrogen4T 
 
 China:  
Gisela Tebbutt 4TGisela.Tebbutt@rcuk.cn4T  
 
 India (DBT):   
Dr Shailja Gupta (4TShailja.Gupta@nic.in4T) and Dr Sanjay Kalia (4Tsanjay.kalia@nic.in4T).  
 12 
 
 
ANNEX 1 
ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE FOR WORKING WITH BRAZIL 
 
The information below has been provided to assist applicants in constructing their 
applications.  If additional guidance is required please use the contacts listed in the Table, 
below. 
 
 
Partner Agency 
The Brazilian Partner Agency is CONFAP 4Thttp://confap.org.br4T   
Eligibility 
The State Funding Agencies listed below have agreed to participate 
in this call.  
  
Brazilian research partners from states not listed below may be able 
to participate but will need to provide their own funding. 
 
 
FACEPE (Pernambuco) 
 
FAPES (Espírito Santo) 
 
FAPEAL (Alagoas) 
 
FAPEPI (Piauí) 
 
FAPITEC (Sergipe) 
 
FUNDECT (Mato Grosso do Sul) 
 
FAPESP (São Paulo) – see additional guidance 
 
FAPEMIG (Minas Gerais) 
 
FAPEG (Goiás) 
 
FAPEAM (Amazonas) 
 
FAPERGS (Rio Grande do Sul) 
 
FAPDF (Distrito Federal) 
 
Fundação Araucária (Paraná) 
 
FAPERJ (Rio de Janeiro) 
 
FAPESC (Santa Catarina) 
 
Brazilian applicants are advised to contact the relevant State Agency 
- FAP - for questions relating to eligibility. 
Scientific Priorities 
The Funders welcome projects on any aspect of the research themes 
indicated within the Scientific Scope: pages 4 to 6. 
 
Specific highlighted priorities include:  
 
Biological Nitrogen Fixation – in legumes and non-leguminous 
crops.  
 
Agronomic Nitrogen Use Efficiency and Biological Nitrogen 
Use Efficiency with a focus on nitrogen retention in farming 
systems, including (e.g.) “no-till” and intercropping. 
Indicative Number 
of Joint Centres 
and proposed 
scale (budget) 
There is a clear preference to fund a number of Virtual Centres (at 
least three) covering different aspects of the research scope. 
   
The UK side will offer up to £3.5 million and the Brazilian partner 
organisations will match this with equivalent research effort. 
Eligible Costs 
UK costs should be based on Full Economic Costing; requests for 
studentships will not be supported. 
 
FAPESP funding can support items specified in the FAPESP 
guidelines for this call available at 4Twww.fapesp.br/nitrogen4T 
 13 
 
 
Applicants should contact: 4Tfundonewton@confap.org.br 4Tfor additional 
guidance relating to CONFAP’s eligible costs.  
 
Applications should be costed according to National rules. 
Documents 
Required 
UK: A description of the documents required by UK applicants is 
provided in Table 1. 
 
The Brazilian Cost Proformas and relevant guidelines will be 
available at:  
CONFAP: 4Thttp://sigconfap.ledes.net/4T  
FAPESP:  4Twww.fapesp.br/nitrogen4T 
Additional 
Submission 
Guidance 
UK applicants should submit their application via Je-S using the 
guidance at page 7. 
 
Brazilian applicants should submit an Identical Case for Support 
document, in English, to the CONFAP Submission Platform 
at: 4Thttp://sigconfap.ledes.net/4T.  
  
State of São Paulo:   
 
Applicants from the State of São Paulo should submit their 
documents to FAPESP following FAPESP guidelines available 
at 4Twww.fapesp.br/nitrogen4T .   
 
Note FAPESP is offering the opportunity for UK applicants to utilise 
the FAPESP São Paulo Excellence Chair (SPEC) 
Award 4Twww.fapesp.br/en/thematic4T) or FAPESP Young Investigator 
Award Program 4Thttp://www.fapesp.br/en/44794T.   
 
Any applicants considering applying to either of these awards should 
contact FAPESP and BBSRC at the contact addresses below before 
submitting their applications. 
Assessment 
Parallel assessment processes will be conducted in the UK (led by 
BBSRC) and Brazil (CONFAP and FAPESP). The outcomes will be 
synthesised at a joint meeting.  A positive recommendation of support 
from each funding body is required in order for a joint award to be 
made. 
Contacts 
CONFAP: 4Tfundonewton@confap.org.br4T 
FAPESP: 4Tnitrogenio@fapesp.br4T  
UK: 4Tnewton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk4T 
 
 
 
 
 14 
 
 
ANNEX 2 
ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE FOR WORKING WITH INDIA 
 
The information below has been provided to assist applicants in constructing their 
applications.  If additional guidance is required please use the contacts listed within the 
Table, below. 
 
 
Partner Agency 
The Department of Biotechnology (DBT) 
4Thttp://www.dbtindia.nic.in/4T 
Eligibility 
As per call document 
 
Scientific Priorities 
The Funders welcome projects on any aspect of the research themes 
indicated within the Scientific Scope: pages 4 to 6. 
Highlighted priorities include:  
 
Biological Nitrogen Use Efficiency  
 
Biological Nitrogen Fixation (in legumes, microbial aspects) 
 
Agronomic Nitrogen Use Efficiency 
Indicative Number 
of Joint Centres 
and proposed 
scale (budget) 
There is a preference to fund three Virtual Joint Centres, covering the 
highlighted priority areas.   
The total indicative budget for the UK components is up to £3.5M with 
matched funding / resources from DBT.   
Eligible Costs 
UK costs should be based on Full Economic costing; requests for 
studentships will not be supported. 
Costs associated with DBT should be described in full as per the 
Case for Support template for the call. DBT shall support all costs as 
indicated in cost proforma. 
Documents 
Required 
A description of the documents required by UK applicants is provided 
in Table 1. 
The DBT Case for Support template should also be included. 
Additional 
Submission 
Guidance 
UK applicants should submit their application via Je-S using the 
guidance at page 7. 
Indian applicants should submit an Identical Case for Support 
document to Dr Shailja Gupta at DBT (4Tshailja.gupta@nic.in4T). 
Assessment 
Parallel assessment processes will be conducted in the UK (led by 
BBSRC) and India (DBT). The outcomes will be synthesised at a joint 
meeting.  A positive recommendation of support from each funding 
body is required in order for a joint award to be made. 
Contacts 
DBT, India: Dr Shailja Gupta (4TShailja.gupta@nic.in4T) and Dr Sanjay 
Kalia (4Tsanjay.kalia@nic.in4T).  
UK: 4Tnewton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk4T 
 
  
 15 
 
ANNEX 3 
ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE FOR WORKING WITH CHINA 
 
The information below has been provided to assist applicants in constructing their 
applications.  If additional guidance is required please use the contacts listed within the 
Table, below. 
 
Chinese Project 
Partners and 
Eligibility  
 
This call is open to established Chinese Academics who are able to 
provide matched effort and resources (cash and in-kind) to support 
the Chinese component of a Virtual Joint Centre in Agricultural 
Nitrogen1TP1F**
P1T.   
 
In-kind support includes: Staff time (investigators, research and 
support staff); use of facilities, equipment and consumables for 
research and use of existing budgets for travel and subsistence. 
  
Chinese academic partners should provide a resource proforma to 
indicate the nature and estimated value of the matched resources 
and a Letter of Support from their Head of Department, Institute 
Director, or equivalent, to confirm institutional support. 
Scientific Scope 
and Priorities 
 
Applications are invited that fit any of the three research themes 
presented within the scientific scope, pages 4 to 6: 
 
Agronomic Nitrogen Use Efficiency  
 
Biological Nitrogen Use Efficiency  
 
Biological Nitrogen Fixation  
Indicative Number 
of Joint Centres 
and Proposed 
Scale  
 
In principle one large Virtual Centre or a number of smaller Virtual 
Centres could be supported.   
 
The total indicative UK budget for working with China is £3.5M with 
matched effort / resources provided by Chinese academic partners. 
Submission 
Guidance and 
Required 
Documents  
 
BBSRC will lead on the administrative and peer review of this call 
with additional input and support from China.   
 
All documents, including those specific to Chinese academics should 
be submitted to BBSRC by the UK principal investigator.   
Contacts 
RCUK China: Gisela Tebbutt 4TGisela.Tebbutt@rcuk.cn4T 
UK: 4Tnewton.fund@bbsrc.ac.uk4T 
 
 
 
                                                           
** Researchers from the Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) planning to take 
part in this call should contact Mr. Xu Ming at the Bilateral Cooperation Division, Dept. of 
International Cooperation at CAAS: xuming@caas.cn. 
 
  
 
 
CHAMADA DE PROJETOS CONFAP-ESRC-MRC-BBSRC - 2015 
ANÚNCIO DOS RESULTADOS 
Este é o anúncio oficial dos resultados das Chamadas de Projetos lançadas em 2015, 
pelo CONFAP em parceria MRC, ESRC e BBSR, no âmbito do Programa do Fundo 
Newton. Os projetos listados a seguir nas tabelas 1, 2 e 3 foram recomendados pelo 
comitê de especialistas do Painel Internacional e serão financiados a partir de 2016 
por até três anos. Os outros projetos que não constam das listas ou não foram 
recomendados pelo Painel ou não serão financiados por limitação do valor 
estabelecido na Chamada.   
A Chamada CONFAP-MRC tem os resultados na Tabela 1.  
TABELA 1 
 
  
 
 
A Chamada CONFAP-ESRC tem os resultados na Tabela 2. 
TABELA 2 
 
 
A Chamada CONFAP-BBSRC tem os resultados na Tabela 3. 
TABELA 3 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
CONFAP-ESRC-MRC-BBSRC CALL FOR PROJETCS - 2015 
ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESULTS 
This is to announce the results of the Call for Proposals launched in 2015, by CONFAP, 
MRC, ESRC and BBSRC, under the auspices of Newton Fund. The projects listed 
below on tables 1, 2 and 3 were recommended by the International Panel of peer 
review process and will be funded, from 2016 for up to three years. The others projects 
which are not in the lists were either not recommended or exceeded the Call budget.   
The Call CONFAP-MRC presented the results on Table 1.  
TABLE 1 
 
  
 
 
The Call CONFAP-ESRC presented the results on Table 2. 
TABLE 2 
 
 
The Call CONFAP-BBSRC presented the results on Table 3. 
TABLE 3 
 
 
 
 
 
