MS TAS ASTRO
 
Space Systems Engineering
■ Aims 
The TAS Astro - Space Systems Engineering Advanced 
Master program is a one-year professional course of study. 
The TAS Astro Advanced Master allows students to develop 
a high level of competence in space science, space systems 
engineering and space project management . The TAS - Astro 
program is highly multidisciplinary and is aimed at developing 
engineering skills to easily enter the work world with great 
opportunities and significant chances of advancement on 
aerospace projects, either in a agency or in a company in a 
multinational environment. 
The program is designed for students starting immediately 
after the completion of their graduate degree and for industrial 
employees who have enrolled through their companies’ 
continuing education programs.  
The TAS Astro curriculum includes a broad spectrum of 
subjects with the following objectives:
 
■ to develop specific skills applied to space sector, in design 
development, space systems engineering and management 
of space projects, 
 
■ to acquire high competences related to technical aspects, 
international economical and legal concerns of space 
projects.
■ Organization 
Head of Program: Prof. Stéphanie LIZY-DESTREZ
E-mail: stephanie.lizy-destrez@isae.fr 
Duration of studies: One year full time
Beginning of classes: September
Location: ISAE
Teaching language: English 
■ Pedagogical approach
First semester: academic session of around 400h, provided 
by ISAE’s permanent professors and various experts bringing 
current knowledge and experience from research center 
(ONERA), Space agencies (CNES, ESA), or European aerospace 
industry (Thales Alenia Space, Airbus Defense & Space/Space 
Transportation, Airbus Defense & Space/Satellites, Safran/ 
SNECMA, etc.). 
This first semester includes:
 
■ lectures, exercises, labs,
 
■ engineering and design study seminars,
 
■ laboratory sessions,
 
■ written report and oral presentation,
 
■ practical sessions, team work  and industrial visits.
Second semester: students have to conduct a professional 
thesis in aerospace industry or in laboratory, in France or 
abroad, supervised by a tutor from the host organisation and 
from ISAE. The thesis is concluded by the preparation of a 
report and an oral dissertation in front of jury.
■ Syllabus
Part 1 - Missions and Systems - 196 h
Space environment and effects
Mission analysis and orbital mechanics
System Dependability
Satellite design
Satellite based localization systems
Satellite engineering and design
Design of Launchers 
Space communications systems
Space manned missions
Part 2 - Environment and Space projects  - 122 h
Space project and systems
Space project financial aspects
Financial and legal aspects
Space projects legal aspects (complements)
Aerospace Engineering Environment
Airbus Space and Defense: systems Engineering of Space Systems 
Integrated Team Project
Part 3 - Sub-systems - 174 h
Real time operational systems
Real time control of a space system
Estimation and filtering
Advanced control and applications
Satellite AOCS
Launchers guidance and control
Satellite electrical systems
On board systems and data handling
Satellite thermal control systems
Part 4 - Standardisation and Conferences - 41 h
Quality Seminar - Seminar «vehicle design: system aspects of 
atmospheric re-entry» - Electrical propulsion conference - 
Crédits photos : © Briot/THALES ALIENIA SPACE
  - 
MS TAS ASTRO
2
Space mechanisms conference - History of Space Exploration 
conference - Space tourism conference - Introduction to space 
Systems - Spacecraft operations 
Visits of companies: Airbus Defense & Space, Airbus, CNES...
■ Career opportunities 
TAS Astro Advanced Master program leads students to 
technical employment either in international industries or in 
research centers in aerospace world. 
Current positions are: Project Managers of space systems, 
Experts in industry or public research laboratories, or in 
Consulting and services companies, etc.
Companies recruiting our students
Altran, Airbus Defense & Space, Aéroconseil, Astek, Atos 
Origin, Bertin, Eutelsat, Eurilogic, GIST, Saipem, Seditec, 
Safran, Sopra Group, Transiciel, Thales Alenia Space, CNES, 
ESA, CTA (Brazil), Inpe (Brazil), DLR (Germany), Instituto 
Mexicano de Comunicaciones (Mexico). GTD Sistemas de 
Información (Spain), Hispasat (Spain), Aerospace Computing 
Inc/AMES (USA),…
Matías JÁUREGUI LORDA - Argentina, PhD at National 
University of La Plata, Argentina, Graduated in 2014
Why did you choose ISAE and apply for the advanced master 
TAS Astro ?
I choose the Advanced Master «Space Systems Engineering» 
because I needed to gain knowledge in space engineering, field 
that is not possible to study in my country. I choose ISAE because 
is a world class institute.
What were your objectives ?
The interaction with professionals that are currently working in the 
space industry and the possibility to see what they are doing at 
the moment
Which are your career plans ?
I’m doing a PhD right now in space engineering. My plan is to grow as 
a professional along with my country space improvement. 
Mireia JOYA - Spain, Thermal engineer (Thermal Analysis 
of Telecom Satellites) at Astrium, Graduated in 2010
The great quality of the ISAE’s master has helped me to shape my 
future the way I imagined. It has been a unique learning experience 
not only because of the numerous lecturers from different areas of the 
Space Industry we had but also because it brought me the opportunity 
to participate in a very interesting project at Airbus Defense & 
Space. I will always remember with great pleasure the friendship 
I made with students from all over the world. After the master 
graduation I joined ALTRAN Toulouse as space thermal engineer».
Arnaud DEMAY - France, Studies Engineer at 
Communication & System - CNES, Graduated in 2013
Why did you choose ISAE and apply for the advanced  master 
«Space system engineering» ? What were your objectives ?
After a general engineering school, I wanted to specialize in space. 
Because I already had notions of project management, I have found 
in this master all relevant and technical concepts to work in space. 
This Master fan me because he made me explore areas of fun 
activities that were dreams since childhood.
According to your experience, which are the strong assets of 
the Master you did ?
This Master have several impressive assets like, for example the fact 
that the majority of teachers and speakers come from the workplace. 
Then, and I loved this aspect, we spent the major part of our time 
working in teams on concrete projects. And finally, I found very 
interesting the quality of the lectures.
Which are your career plans ?
This Master helps me to reach the first step in my career plans : I 
am working for the CNES, the French space agency in launchers 
department. After some years there, I would like to get closer to a 
launch campaign, in Kourou, French Guyana.  My dream is to become 
a Range Operations Director! 
Hélène MA - France, Early-Stage Researcher at 
Stardust Progral - The Asteroid and Space Debris 
Ntework, University of Pisa, Graduated in 2013
Why did you choose ISAE and apply for the advanced master TAS 
Astro ?
I was graduated as a general engineer with an option of mechanical 
engineering. With the engineering training I followed, I only had 
experience in aircraft industries. Since i wanted to get a better 
opportunity to work on space field (which was my main objective), so I 
decided to apply for this master, particularly due to its complete program 
on space projects and the quality education ISAE is used to giving.
What were your objectives ?
My target was to extend my knowledge in space field in order to 
strengthen my profile and to become a space engineer as perfomed 
as possible. 
According to your experience, which are the strong assets of the 
Master you did ?
This advanced master is a complete and mature program because 
it scans through various issues related to space. Its quality 
is maintained by ISAE teachers and professional people from 
different space industries and agencies. Therefore, students are 
informed of the newest space events and studies. Thus, it allows 
us to appreciate the international and multi-cultural aspect of team 
working during different projects such as the Integrated Team 
Project. 
Which are your carreer plans  ?
I hope I could contribute to the Space Situational Awareness issues 
for international industries and agencies.
TESTIMONIES
MS TAS Astro students interested in Space Exploration can choose to attend SEEDS classes, supported by ESA (European 
Space Agency) and offered in partnership with Politecnico de Torino and Leicester University.
After the academic part, in substitution of the master thesis, students lead a project in an International team, during 6 months 
(2 months in Torino, 2 months in Toulouse and 2 months in Leicester).
 Common ISAE’s admission procedures
Crédits photo :  © Aude Lemarchand
Your contacts at ISAE 
Philippe GALAUP, Head of recruitment and Contractual Relations - Phone : +33 (5) 61 33 80 27
Laurence BALLARIN, Senior Admission Advisor - Phone :+33 (5) 61 33 80 22
Marie GUIBBAL, Senior Admission Advisor - Phone : +33 (5) 61 33 80 28
info-masters@isae-supaero.fr
5
Advanced Masters 
Academic requirements
Applicants must have a Master degree, or an equivalent degree in science or engineering, or a bachelor degree with 3 years of 
professional experience at least.
Tuition fees 2016:
EU
Out of EU
reduced tuition fees1
tuition fees
reduced tuition fees2
tuition fees3
TAS Astro
7 500 €
12 500 €
12 500 €
18 000 €
1 for students graduated in the year of enrollment or the year before and with no professional experience
2 for individual applicants
3 fees for public agencies and private companies available upon request from Philippe Galaup at: philippe.galaup@isae.fr, Head of recruitment 
and Contractual Relations
Possibility of studies funding by the Midi-Pyrénées Regional Council for French and UE unemployed applicants.
Selection and admission 
Admission to ISAE’s master at: 
http://admissionsmasters.isae-supero.fr
Selection and admission are made by an admission committee: 
> possible interviews can be organized if necessary
Deadlines for application: 
> several admission committees scheduled from February to July 2016, see schedule on our website: www.isae-supaero.fr 
Application fees: 
> 67 € (non-refundable)
Language requirements
Language qualification requested: 
> TOEFL (Paper-based): 550 points 
> or TOEFL (IBT): 79 points 
> or TOEIC: 785 points 
> or IELTS: 6.5 points. 
 ISAE-SUPAERO is a world-class higher institute for aerospace engineering education and research. Nowadays with a student 
corpus of over 1600, ISAE-SUPAERO is one of Europe’s largest Aerospace Institute offering graduate and postgraduate programs. 
Yearly, ISAE-SUPAERO awards around 20% of master’s degrees in Europe in aeronautics and space field. ISAE-SUPAERO develops 
its worldwide reputation on the prestige of its master’s programs, the fame of its teaching staff, or the excellence of its research 
but also on the high-value of its graduates, their skills in engineering or management, as well, their capacity to evolve within a 
very high-technology environment, their enterprising mind and international opening..
■  Key figures
 
■ 1 «diplôme d’ingénieur» ISAE SUPAERO 
in French 
 
■ 1 Master of Science ISAE-SUPAERO in English
 
■ 1 «diplôme d’ingénieur par apprentissage» 
CNAM-ISAE (co-op master program)
 
■ 15 Advanced Masters including 10 in English
 
■ 5 Masters in French
 
■ 6 PhD Programs
 
■ More than 1600 students including 1400 masters 
and more than 220 PhDs
 
■ 81 international cooperation agreements
■  Identity card
Name: Institut Supérieur de l’Aéronautique et de l’Espace (ISAE)
Legal Status: Public Institution of higher education and research
Trustees: Direction Générale de l’Armement (DGA) [French Government Defense procurement] - Department of Defense
Endorsements and awards: CTI agreement of the two «Diplôme d’ingénieur», Conference des "Grandes Écoles" for postgraduate 
Advanced Masters and "Ministry of Higher Education and Research" for Masters of Science
Staff: 400 permanent staff
■  A campus fully renovated in 2015
Toulouse
FRANCE
ISAE-SUPAERO campus is located in Toulouse, along the 
Canal du Midi (UNESCO world heritage).
It is composed of:
 
■ wide range of sports facilities including swimming pool, 
tennis and squash courts, sports hall, football and rugby 
fields, climbing wall and fitness room,
 
■ 6 students halls of residence : 1000 rooms and studios 
apartments, all connected to high-speed network,
 
■ a restaurant.
The campus is located in the Rangueil scientific complex, 
close to :
 
■ ONERA aeronautical research centre
 
■ ENAC - French Civil Aviation School
 
■ CNES - French space agency
 
■ LAAS and CESR, 2 CNRS laboratories
 
■ Paul Sabatier University
 
■ INSA engineering school
Crédit photo :  © Atelier 6.1
ISAE in few words
6
 École Nationale Supérieure d'Électrotechnique, d'Électronique, 
d'Informatique, d'Hydraulique et des Télécommunications
Accredited by the Conférence des Grandes Écoles
The  master program benefit of the strong connections
 with the aerospace and defence industries, as well as automobile, energy, etc. 
developed over the past 100 years by SUPAERO and ENSEEIHT.
AIMS
Satellite System is an inescapable vector of 
communications as far as it has demonstra-
ted its capability to collect and spread, 
better than any other network, messages 
and data in a vast coverage area for the 
benefit of thousand users, since the sixty’s. 
Even if the space communications market 
remains a niche market of the global 
telecommunications business, it represents 
one of the most commercially profitable 
space applications in ceaselessly evolution. 
Consequently companies of the sector, for 
space system development or for services 
and applications, recruit permanently junior 
executives with a specific expertise adap-
ted to the specificities of the environment 
and quickly operational.  
The master SCS is designed to offer 
Mastère Spécialisé
SPACE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS
(ISAE – ENSEEIHT - TELECOM Bretagne - TELECOM SudParis) 
Prof. Michel BOUSQUET
Phone : + 33 (0)5 61 33 80 86
E-mail : michel.bousquet@isae.fr
HEADS OF PROGRAM
Prof. Marie-Laure BOUCHERET
Phone : + 33 (0)5 61 58 80 16
E-mail : marie-laure.boucheret@enseeiht.fr
Duration of studies : one year full time / Beginning of classes :  September / Location : ISAE, Campus SUPAERO, and ENSEEIHT Campus
Project management
Basics on signal, electronics, communications and networks
Signal processing and source coding
Digital communications
Spread spectrum techniques
Coding and modulation for satellite channel
Networks and protocols for communications
Antennas and microwaves components 
Space systems and specific techniques components
Orbits and satellites platforms 
Radiofrequency links and propagation
Space communications systems
Navigation and localization systems by satellite
Communication and navigation satellite payload
Digital filters and processing
Communications and navigation digital receivers
Ground stations and terminals
Workshops (1)
Network simulation tools
Integrated circuits and functions 
Aeronautical and space applications
Communications networks by satellites
Introduction to embedded-networks
Mobile communications and multimedia
Legal and economic aspects
Overview of space systems applications
Workshops (2 )
students 
with 
necessary 
and 
up-to-date 
knowledge for mastering different aspects of 
digital communications, signal processing, and 
networks techniques used in the communication 
or navigation systems design for aeronautical or 
space applications.
So, the master SCS emphasizes on the following 
objectives:
give global approach of systems by emphasizing 
the environments, the limitations and the 
constraints, the interfaces and the expected 
performances,
improve the disciplines interacting in the concep-
tion of these systems: signal processing, commu-
nications, data processing and networks, etc.
acquire and master design and simulation tools of 
the sector,
initiate into the development of applications of 
these systems for space, aeronautical and 
embedded-systems domains.
PEDAGOGICAL APPROACH
• First semester : 
academic session of around 400h, provi-
ded by ENSEEIHT and ISAE’s permanent 
professors and experts from aerospace 
industry bringing current knowledge and 
experience, including :
lectures, tutorials, experimental and 
practical sessions, online exercises, 
practical works in team, simulation with 
MATLAB, OPNET, or specific software.
3 projects carried out in pairs for about 
100 hours globally,
conferences, demonstrations in labora-
tory, experimentations on links, navigation 
receivers (GPS, etc.).
• Second semester : 
students conduct a professional thesis in aeronauti-
cal industry or organisation, in France or abroad 
and supervised by a tutor from the host organisa-
tion and from ISAE, ENSEEIHT or ENST. The thesis is 
concluded by the preparation of a report and an 
oral dissertation in front of jury.
SYLLABUS
Dr. Laurent FRANCK
Phone : +33 (0)5 61 33 83 67
E-mail : laurent.franck@telecom-bretagne.eu 
 APPLYING
 
• WHO CAN APPLY ?
Applicants having a master degree, or an equivalent 
degree in science or engineering, or a bachelor degree 
with 3 years of professional experience at least,
 
• HOW TO APPLY ?
Through application file, to be downloaded at www.isae.fr.
Selection is made upon the study of the application file, 
possible interviews can be organized if necessary.
Deadlines for application : from April to July 2009,
Application fees: 65 euros (non-refundable).
Applications have to be sent :
Institut Supérieur de l’Aéronautique et de l’Espace
Direction des masters et mastères spécialisés
10, avenue Édouard-Belin
BP 54032
31055 Toulouse Cedex 4 - France
 
• ENGLISH PROFICIENCY
Adequate command of spoken and written English is required 
for admission.
Language qualification is requested TOEFL: 550 (paper-based).
Except if applicant’s first language is English or total instruction 
of Bachelor or master degree has been provided in English.
Tuition fees 2009-2010: 12 000 euros.
French and European Students: 6000 euros (students 
graduated in the year of application or the year before, 
and with no professional experience)
 
• CONTACT INFORMATION
Michel CHAUVIN, Deputy Director of Masters Programs: 
michel.chauvin@isae.fr
Marie JENTET, Information and Marketing Manager:
marie.jentet@isae.fr
Web: www.isae.fr 
 
• INDUSTRIAL PARTNERSHIPS
THALES has selected the specialized master Space Com-
munications Systems for its THALES Academia program, 
every year scholarships are offered to students from 
Brazil, China, India and Russia.
Mastère Spécialisé SPACE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS 
CARRER OPPORTUNITIES
This specialized master in space communications systems 
offers students various junior executive positions in systems 
design leading to the management of projects in navigation 
and communications space systems sectors.
 
• COMPAGNIES RECRUITING OUR STUDENTS
Electronics ant telecommunications companies
Alcatel, EADS, Thales, Safran, St Micro
Communications operators
Eutelsat, Hispasat, Société Européenne de Satellites, Teles-
pazio
Space agencies and research centers
CNES, DSNA, DLR, ESA
Consulting groups
M3 Systems, Altran, France Developpement Conseil, etc.
École Nationale Supérieure d'Électrotechnique, d'Électronique, 
d'Informatique, d'Hydraulique et des Télécommunications
 1
Space Communication Systems 
(ISAE, ENSEEIHT, Télécom Bretagne, TELECOM SudParis)
Aims
Since fifty years, satellite systems have demonstrated 
their excellence to collect and distribute data in a vast 
coverage area for the benefit of thousands of users. Within the 
global telecommunications industry, space communications 
display one of the most profitable businesses in permanent 
evolution. Companies of the sector, both system and service 
providers, are constantly looking for junior executives offering 
the expertise matching the specifics of space communications.
The Space Communication Systems program is tailored to 
provide students with necessary and up-to-date knowledge 
for mastering different aspects of digital communications, 
signal processing, and networking applied to communication 
or navigation systems. Such systems are strategic in 
aeronautical or space applications.
The program, is built upon on the following foundations:
 > give a global approach of system design and analysis 
by taking into account the environments, the limitations 
and the constraints, the interfaces and the expected 
performances,
 > develop expertise in the disciplines contributing to the 
design of these systems: signal processing,  digital 
communications, networking, etc.
 > to acquire and master design methods, simulation tools 
and field techniques,
 > get acquainted with the development of applications for 
the space, aeronautical and embedded-system domains.
Organization
Heads of Program: 
 > Prof. Marie-Laure BOUCHERET 
E-mail: marie-laure.boucheret@enseeiht.fr
 > Prof. Michel BOUSQUET 
E-mail: michel.bousquet@isae.fr
 > Prof. Laurent FRANCK
E-mail: laurent.franck@telecom-bretagne.eu
Duration of studies: One year full time
Beginning of classes:  September
Location: Toulouse: ISAE, Campus SUPAERO and 
ENSEEIHT
Pedagogical approach
First semester: academic session of around  
 
500 hours, provided by ENSEEIHT, Télécom 
Bretagne and ISAE’s permanent professors and experts from 
the aerospace Industry bringing current knowledge and 
experience, including:
 > lectures, tutorials, experimental and practical sessions, 
online exercises, practical works in team, simulation with 
MATLAB, OPNET, or specific software,
 > 3 projects carried out in pairs for about 100 hours globally,
 > conferences, demonstrations in laboratory, experimenta-
tions on links, navigation receivers (GPS, etc.).
Second semester: students have to conduct a professional 
thesis in the aerospace Industry or in a laboratory, in France 
or abroad, supervised by a tutor from the host organisation 
and from ISAE, ENSEEIHT or Télécom Bretagne. The thesis is 
concluded by the preparation of a report and a public defense.
Syllabus
Part 1 - Project management - 21 h
Part 2 -Basics - 181 h
Signal processing, Digital communications, Spread spectrum 
techniques, Coding applied to the satellite channel, Network 
& telecommunication protocols, Simulation of networks, 
Antennas and microwaves, Simulation of communication 
systems
Part 3 - Space and specific techniques - 196 h
Orbits and platforms, Propagation & Radiofrequency links, 
Space communications systems, Satellite geographical 
positionning and navigation systems, Payload, Earth station, 
Digital filters, Digital communications receivers, Digital 
navigation receivers, Project
MS SCS
Crédits photos : CNES/NASA
 2
1
Part 4 - Applications - 136 h
Satellite based computer networks, Embedded systems, 
multimedia 
communications, 
mobile 
communications, 
Financial applications, Project
Career opportunities
This Advanced Master in space communications systems 
offers students various junior executive positions in systems 
design leading to the management of projects in navigation 
and communications space systems sectors.
Companies recruiting our students
Electronics ant telecommunications companies:  
Alcatel, EADS, Thales, Safran, St Micro
Communications operators: Eutelsat, Hispasat, SES, 
Telespazio
Space agencies and research centers: CNES, DSNA, 
DLR, ESA, Algerian Space Agency
Consulting 
groups: 
M3 
Systems, 
Altran, 
France 
Developpement Conseil, etc.
Advanced Masters
in English
Chunbang WU, China, Engineer, CAST, 
Graduated in 2011
Why did you choose ISAE and apply for our master ? 
What were your objectives ?
ISAE is well known in areonutic and areospace field all over 
the world. It is CAST (China academy of space technology) 
recommends me choosing this school and applying for 
Advanced Master. My objectives were to improve my basic 
theory in Space Communication System and to enhance the 
tighten friendship with European company.
According to your experience, which are the strong 
assets of the Master you did ?
In my study period, the deepest impression is that teachers 
have broad and profund knowledge, strong system concept 
and accurate logic, such as Professor Michel Bousquet. He 
provided many chances to visit the well-known areospace 
company and communicate with the experts.  
Which are your career plans ? 
After going back to China, I will continue my work in CAST. I 
will use my knowledge learned from ISAE to the areospace 
program of China. I will become a general designer of satellite 
system.  
VENMANI Daniel Philip, India, Graduated in 2010
France, a land of Fashion and food, the land of TGV, is superior 
in its technology also. And that is the prime reason I opted 
for France as a destination to do my Masters Studies. France, 
being one of the leaders in wireless communications with 
Satellite Communications and Telecommunications, bearing 
major concerns like the EADS, Thales attracted me to pursue 
my Masters in Space Communication Systems. 
And, to its credit, ISAE is the best place to begin a career 
in communications, where in numerous research works are 
being carried out in domains like Ad-Hoc networks, Wireless 
Networks, Resource Allocation for satellite links, Radio 
engineering for satellite systems etc.  
ISAE, best known for its exclusive training for engineers in 
the field of Aeronautical Engineering, is no way inferior for 
Satellite communications as well. Best professors like Marie 
Laure Boucheret, Michel Bousquet, Laurent Franck are all 
known for excellent academic and research accomplishments 
in their respective field. World class Labs that are opened 
throughout the day, easy access to libraries and above all 
always-smiling and most willingly helpful staff will make the 
stay more pleasant. 
In short, I could conclude that «ISAE- Not so foreign!» to 
me, as I have all my motherland feelings inherited in it while 
studying there! Today, I find myself as a Doctoral Candidate 
with Orange Labs, thanks to ISAE!
TESTIMONIES
 3
Your contacts at ISAE 
>  Philippe GALAUP, Head of recruitment and Contractual Relations - Phone : +33 (5) 61 33 80 27
>  Laurence BALLARIN, Senior Admission Advisor  - Phone :+33 (5) 61 33 80 22
>  Marie GUIBBAL, Senior Admission Advisor - Phone : +33 (5) 61 33 80 28
info-masters@isae.fr
Advanced Masters 
Academic requirements
Applicants must have a Master degree, or an equivalent degree in science or engineering, or a bachelor degree with 3 years of 
professional experience at least.
Tuition fees 2014:
EU
Out of EU
reduced tuition fees1
tuition fees
reduced tuition fees2
tuition fees3
SCS
6 500 ¤
12 500 ¤
12 500 ¤
18 000 ¤
1 for students graduated in the year of enrollment or the year before and with no professional experience
2 for individual applicants
3 fees for public agencies and private companies available upon request from Philippe Galaup at: philippe.galaup@isae.fr, Head of recruitment 
and Contractual Relations
Possibility of studies funding by the Midi-Pyrénées Regional Council for French and UE unemployed applicants.
Selection and admission 
Admission to ISAE’s master at: 
http://admissionsmasters.isae.fr
Selection and admission are made by an admission committee: 
> possible interviews can be organized if necessary
Deadlines for application: 
>  several admission committees scheduled from February to July 2014, see schedule on our website: www.isae.fr 
Application fees: 
>  67 € (non-refundable)
Language requirements
Language qualification requested: 
 > TOEFL (Paper-based): 550, 
 > TOEFL (IBT): 79, 
 > TOEIC: 750, 
 > IELTS: 6.0, 
 > CAE Cambridge, …
Common ISAE’s admission procedures
ISAE in few words
 33
33
3
Useful information
ISAE in few words
The “Institut Supérieur de l’Aéronautique et de l’Espace” (ISAE) was created in 2007 from the merger of the two prestigious 
French postgraduate schools of engineering, SUPAERO and ENSICA. Today, ISAE, is a world-class higher institute for aerospace 
engineering education and research. Nowadays with a student corpus of over 1500, ISAE is one of Europe’s largest Aerospace 
Institute offering graduates and postgraduates programs. Yearly, ISAE awards around 20% of master’s degrees in Europe 
in aeronautics and space field. ISAE develops its worldwide reputation on the prestige of its master’s programs, the fame 
of its teaching staff, or the excellence of its research but also on the high-value of its graduates, their skills in engineering 
or management, as well, their capacity to evolve within a very high-technology environment, their enterprising mind and 
international opening.
Key figures
 > 2 Graduate Engineering Programs:  
SUPAERO and ENSICA
 > 15 Advanced Masters including 10 in English
 > 3 Masters of Science
 > 5 Research Masters
 > 6 PhD Programs
 > 1500 students (1300 masters and 200 PhDs more or less)
 > 160 international cooperation opportunities
50 academic and research partnerships 
Identity card
Name: Institut Supérieur de l’Aéronautique et de l’Espace (ISAE)
Founded in 2007 - as the result of the merging of SUPAERO (1909) and ENSICA (1945)
Legal Status: Public Institution of higher education and research
Trustees: Direction Générale de l’Armement (DGA) [French Defence Procurement] - Ministry of Defense
Endorsements and awards: CTI agreement of the two Graduate Programs, Conference des "Grandes Écoles" for postgraduate 
Advanced Masters and "Ministry of Higher Education and Research" for Masters of Science
Staff: 420 permanent staff
Two campuses close to all conveniences
The two campuses are located in the very heart of Toulouse. This means that students can very easily balance studies, social 
life, sports and leisure activities from day to day.
The SUPAERO campus
 > Nearly 1,000 students on a 22-hectare campus that runs alongside the Canal du Midi,
 > extensive sports facilities: swimming pool, tennis courts, squash courts, gymnasium, sports pitches, climbing wall; the banks 
of the Canal du Midi are just a short stroll away,
 > student residences: 500 places on the campus; on-site catering.
The ENSICA campus
 > Located close to the centre of Toulouse and accessible in less than five minutes by metro,
 > nearly 500 students on an eight-hectare campus,
 > extensive sports facilities: tennis courts, gymnasium, sports pitches; the banks of the Canal du Midi are just a short stroll 
away,
 > student residences: more than 350 places on the campus; on-site catering.
Toulouse
FRANCE
4
 Think
& Create
3 INTERNATIONAL ACCREDITATIONS
PROGRAMS
INITIAL TRAINING
● BACHELOR IN MANAGEMENT
● GRANDE ÉCOLE / MASTER IN MANAGEMENT
● MSc - MASTERS OF SCIENCE
● MASTÈRES SPÉCIALISÉS®
● SUMMER PROGRAMME
EXECUTIVE EDUCATION
● SPECIALIZED EXECUTIVE MASTERS®
● MBA (AEROSPACE MBA, EXECUTIVE MBA)
● DBA - DOCTORATE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
● TRAINING FOR BUSINESS LEADERS (BUSINESS LEADER, COMPANY MANAGEMENT TOOLS, CPA)
● DIPLOMA PROGRAMS (EXECUTIVE MASTER, EXECUTIVE BACHELOR)
● TAILOR-MADE PROGRAMS
CAMPUSES
TOULOUSE I BARCELONA I CASABLANCA I PARIS BRANCH I LONDON BRANCH
TRIPLE ACCREDITATION
2015 - 2016
Follow us
 Think out of the box 
Create value
Originally founded by the Toulouse Chamber of Commerce, Toulouse Business 
School (TBS) took off in 1903. Same year, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky deduced the 
Basic Rocket Equation(1) and the Wright Brothers (Orville and Wilbur) invented 
and built the world’s first successful airplane, and made the first controlled, 
powered and sustained heavier-than-air human flight(2).
Think & create are two sides of TBS core mission: building practical skills for the 
business world of today and tomorrow. 
Today considered as one of the best French “Grandes Écoles”, TBS is part of 
a prestigious group of international business schools that hold the “triple crown” 
of accreditation - EQUIS (since 2001), AMBA (since 2002), and AACSB (since 2003). 
This accomplishment has been achieved by only 2% of business schools in the 
world. 
Toulouse is the second biggest French University research metropolis only to Paris, 
one of the leading international centers for:
- aerospace research (CNES, Onera, Engineering Schools, Aerospace Valley), 
- development and production of civil aircraft (Airbus and ATR), 
-  earth observation and satellite systems (Airbus Defence & Space and Thales 
Alenia Space).
At the heart of a world-class aerospace complex located in this exceptional 
industrial, academic and research environment, Toulouse Business School shares 
its management expertise with the Aerospace world.
The Aerospace MBA program makes a valuable contribution to the Aerospace 
ecosystem where professionals, academics, researchers and students come 
together to share knowledge and experience and build a global network.
“Nowhere else in the world could you find such a large number of origins and 
cultures and so many manufacturers, airlines, service companies, electronics 
businesses and research organizations, all connected in some way to the aerospace 
sector. That’s why we attract high-caliber students from all over the world eager 
to join the program”.
Christophe Bénaroya
Aerospace MBA Director
(1) Tsiolkovsky, Konstantin E., (1903), The Exploration of Cosmic Space by Means of Reaction Devices, The Science Review.
(2)  Johnson, Mary Ann., (2001), On the Aviation Trail in the Wright Brothers’ West Side Neighborhood in Dayton, Ohio, 
Following in the Footsteps of the Wright Brothers: Their Sites and Stories, September 28, Paper 3.
 THE AEROSPACE MBA 
IS PROPOSED IN 
TWO FORMATS
Full time one year
Part time two years
a one-year Full Time Program or a two-year Part Time Program
• Team Building 
Seminar  
• Core Modules
Preparation Work 
Reading
Assignments 
Preparation Work
Process Workshops
Team Building Seminar 
Core Modules
Electives
• Multicultural Team 
Follow Up • Leadership 
Development • Effective 
Communication Skills
• Multicultural Team 
Follow Up • Leadership 
Development • Effective 
Communication Skills
Multicultural Project, Leadership Development, 
Effective Communication Skills
Electives
Assignments 
Preparation Work
• Individual Project: 
- Corporate Mission  
- Research Project
• Individual Project: 
- Corporate Mission  
- Research Project
Process Workshops
• Individual Project 
Presentation 
• Multicultural Team 
Project presentation
• Multicultural Team 
Follow Up • Leadership 
Development • Effective 
Communication Skills
• Leadership  
Development  
• Effective  
Communication Skills
OCTOBER 
TO JANUARY
BEFORE
FEBRUARY
OCTOBER 
TO MARCH
FEBRUARY 
TO APRIL
FEBRUARY - MARCH
5 weeks in Toulouse
APRIL-MAY
1 week in Montreal 
1 week in Seattle 
2 weeks in Toulouse
APRIL 
TO MAY
APRIL 
TO SEPTEMBER
MAY 
TO SEPTEMBER
MAY 
TO SEPTEMBER
SEPTEMBER
4 weeks in Toulouse
SEPTEMBER
1 week in Toulouse
YEAR 1
YEAR 2
 AEROSPACE MBA 
A WORLDWIDE NETWORK
OUR HIGH FLYERS
>  Ruxandra BRUTARU (Romania), Aerospace MBA 2001: TAROM, President and CEO (2008-2011), Aviation Consulting Group, 
Chairman and CEO (2012 and on)
> Michael DELANEY (USA), Aerospace MBA 2001: Boeing CA, Director of Operations - 737 Final Assembly
> Patrick MATHIEU (France), Aerospace MBA 2003: Head of MIS Solutions and Services, Airbus
> Jun MENG (China), Aerospace MBA 2004: AVIC Shenyang Liming Aero-Engines, Chairman and President
> Pingyan SHI (China), Aerospace MBA 2006: CAST XI’AN, Chairman and President
> Arnaud MEZIERES (France), Aerospace MBA 2007: EADS, Vice President Industrial Cooperation South East Asia
> Kajetan VON MENZINGEN (Germany), Aerospace MBA 2011: Eurocopter, Vice President Lean Development
Aerospace MBA in India
Developed in Toulouse,
Delivered in Bangalore
(TBS with IIM Bangalore)
Pacific 
French Polynesia
North 
America 
Canada 
Mexico 
USA
Europe 
Albania 
Belgium 
England 
Finland
France 
Germany 
Greece 
Italy 
Norway 
Poland 
Portugal 
Spain 
Switzerland 
Sweden 
Turkey
Central 
Europe 
Azerbaijan 
Kazakhstan 
Latvia 
Romania 
Russia 
Ukraine
Middle East 
Bahrain 
Jordania 
Kuwait 
Lebanon 
Oman 
Saudi Arabia 
The United Arab Emirates 
Yemen
South 
America 
Bolivia 
Brazil 
Chile 
Colombia
Peru
Trinidad and Tobago 
Venezuela
Africa 
Botswana 
Cape Verde 
Egypt
Kenya 
Libya 
Morocco
Mozambique
Nigeria 
South Africa 
Tanzania 
Tunisia
Uganda
 The Aerospace MBA App 
> discover the Aerospace MBA Alumni Network 
http://www.tbs-mba.com/aerospace/
After a 3-day team building and induction seminar, the curriculum starts 
by providing participants with a broad coverage of the main fundamental 
strategic and functional areas in management taught mainly by the 
permanent faculty of Toulouse Business School, namely:
• Strategy and Core Business
•  Corporate Finance and Financial Accounting 
• Economics and Sustainable Development
• Operations Strategy and Management
• Human Capital and Leadership Development
• Marketing and Sales
Then, the program adopts a complete process approach that covers 
the key management topics that cut across different functions in the 
aerospace sector.
These process workshops, instructed by highly qualified professionals 
from the Aerospace industry and services, are:
• Managing Alliances and Partnerships
• Change Management
• Managing Complex Projects
• Insurance, Hedging and Risk Management
• Management Accounting and Performance Monitoring
• Knowledge and Competence Management
• Supply Chain Management
• Legal Environment and Ethics
The combination of these two approaches (functional and process) 
forms a matrix structure that corresponds to the typical organizational 
structure that is common in the Aerospace sector.
Beyond the mere acquisition of knowledge and technical skills, 
the curriculum is designed to put theory into practice by focusing on 
the personal development of participants through such competencies 
as decision making, team work, self-leadership, leadership skills, 
entrepreneurial potential, negotiation, communication and presentation 
skills.
Then elective courses on Aerospace Sub Sectors such as Civil Aircraft 
and Engines, Airlines, Airport, Defence and Space are proposed.
The aim of these electives is to further broaden participants’ knowledge, 
such that they will be able to integrate into their decision-making processes, 
management problems encountered in specific aerospace sub sectors. 
Finally, the program ends with a full time 4 month corporate mission to put 
in practice the knowledge acquired during the previous stages. 
Alternatively, these four months could be spent carrying out research work 
on a topic related to the concepts developed during stages two and three.
Over and above the curriculum, a particular attention is paid to 
soft skills development centered on Leadership Development and 
Effective Communication Skills.
Last but not least, participants have to work on 2 projects, a multi-
cultural team project and an individual project, under the supervision 
of a faculty member and an executive from the corporate world.
Structure
Asia 
Bangladesh 
China 
India 
Nepal
East Asia 
Indonesia 
Japan 
Korea 
Malaysia 
Taiwan 
Thailand 
Vietnam
Oceania 
Fiji 
New Zealand
 2000 
Philippe CAMUS, 
EADS, Co-President and CEO
2001 
Alan MULALLY, 
Boeing Commercial Airplanes, President and CEO
2002 
Jean-Paul BECHAT, 
SNECMA, President and CEO
2003 
Noël FORGEARD, 
Airbus, President and CEO
2004 
Jean-Cyril SPINETTA, 
AIR France, President and CEO
2005 
Sir Charles MASEFIELD, 
BAe Systems, President
2006 
Jean-Marc THOMAS, 
Aerospace Valley, President
2007 
Scott DONELLY, 
GE Aviation, President and CEO
2008 
Fabrice BREGIER, 
Airbus, President and CEO
2009 
Ruxandra BRUTARU, 
TAROM, President and CEO, Aerospace MBA
2010 
Richard HILL, 
Etihad Airways, COO
2011 
Filippo BAGNATO, 
ATR, President and CEO
2012 
Damien LASOU, 
Accenture Aerospace&Defence, Global Executive Director
2013 
Tom ENDERS, 
EADS, President and CEO
2014 
Sameh EL HEFNY, 
Egyptair Holding, Chairman and CEO, Aerospace MBA
2015 
Olivier ZARROUATI, 
Zodiac Aerospace, CEO
Trustees
Each intake has been honored to have a worldwide 
leader as its sponsor.
 THE AEROSPACE MBA 
PROGRAM
Develop individuals with high-level 
executive skills for management and 
leadership, who will become strategy 
accelerators and change leaders in a 
customer-driven global network, all 
the while being responsible for trans-
mitting high standards and values to 
their teams.
Gather individuals (delegates and 
contributors) from the aerospace 
industry and its sub-sectors (aviation, 
civil aircraft and engines manufactu-
ring, defense and space) so that they 
share their experience and exper-
tise, develop and deploy a global 
and  international network of future 
leaders.
Responsible leaders belonging to an 
international network, able to lead 
and implement the needed changes 
to enable their company to cope with 
the current and future challenges 
of Aeronautical, Aviation, Space & 
Defense industries.
Mission
Objectives
Outcomes
 For further information: 
www.tbs-education.fr 
Contact: aerospace.mba@tbs-education.fr - +33 (0)6 89 23 98 27 - +33 (0) 6 42 00 48 18
Toulouse Business School 
20, boulevard Lascrosses - BP 7010 
31068 Toulouse Cedex 7 - France
Nouveau Monde DDB Toulouse - © Christian Rivière - Getty Images
TOULOUSE 
BUSINESS 
SCHOOL
PROGRAMS
INITIAL TRAINING
● BACHELOR IN MANAGEMENT
● GRANDE ÉCOLE / MASTER IN MANAGEMENT
● MSc - MASTERS OF SCIENCE
● MASTÈRES SPÉCIALISÉS®
● SUMMER PROGRAMME
EXECUTIVE EDUCATION
● SPECIALIZED EXECUTIVE MASTERS®
● MBA (AEROSPACE MBA, EXECUTIVE MBA)
● DBA - DOCTORATE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
● TRAINING FOR BUSINESS LEADERS (BUSINESS LEADER, COMPANY MANAGEMENT TOOLS, CPA)
● DIPLOMA PROGRAMS (EXECUTIVE MASTER, EXECUTIVE BACHELOR)
● TAILOR-MADE PROGRAMS
CAMPUSES
TOULOUSE I BARCELONA I CASABLANCA I PARIS BRANCH I LONDON BRANCH
TRIPLE ACCREDITATION
A SCHOOL
Follow us
ToulouseBusinessSchoolAerospaceMBA
tbs-aerospace-mba
Blog : www.aerospacemba.tbs-education.fr/
www.iimb.ernet.in
