
1/10 
 
 
Globalstars Call for Proposals  
for Joint R&D Projects under EUREKA between  
Argentina 
and the EUREKA member states  
(Czech Republic, Finland, Israel, Spain and Turkey) 
 
 
 
 
Time Schedule 
Opening of the Call 
15 March 2018 
Deadline for Applications 
7 June 2018 
Selected projects receive EUREKA label  
5 October 2018 (at the latest) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
EUREKA (www.eurekanetwork.org) is an intergovernmental organisation for market-
driven industrial R&D. It is a decentralised network facilitating the coordination of 
national funding on innovation, aiming to boost the productivity & competitiveness of 
European industries. Following a bottom-up approach with projects being in any 
technological area with a civilian purpose, EUREKA has been the driving force of 
innovation in Europe for over 30 years. 
Within the GlobalStars initiative of EUREKA, based on the mutual consent, Argentina is 
determined as a privileged country to increase cooperation with. Participants from 
Argentina and respective EUREKA member states are invited to submit joint project 
proposals in the fields of industrial and technological research and development in the 
framework of the EUREKA program. 
 
1. Scope 
This call invites projects in ALL thematic areas, reflecting the bottom-up approach of 
the EUREKA Network projects. 
 
a. National authorities 
Respective National Authorities responsible for this call are as follows: 
- 
MINCYT: The Argentinean Ministry of Science, Technology and Productive 
innovation (MINCYT) is the Argentinean governmental entity responsible of 
defining objectives and policies of the National System of Science, Technology and 
Innovation; executing R+D+I plans, programs and projects; and coordinating 
international cooperation relations in its field of competence.  
 
- 
IIA: The Israel Innovation Authority, formerly known as the Office of the Chief 
Scientist of the Ministry of Economy (& Matimop), which is responsible for the 
country’s innovation policy, is an independent and impartial public entity that 
operates for the benefit of the Israeli innovation ecosystem and Israeli economy as 
a whole. Its role is to nurture and develop Israeli innovation resources, while 
creating and strengthening the infrastructure and framework needed to support 
the entire knowledge industry. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
- 
MEYS: Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in the Czech Republic has role  as 
National Funding Authority for international cooperation in R&D&I between 
companies, universities, research institutes and others. Open to all EUREKA 
technological fields, bottom-up approach. Project evaluation under the National 
Call is conducted at national level. Supports the participation of the Czech 
participants in new EUREKA Projects. Projects that have not been endorsed by the 
EUREKA procedure before the submission of the application 
 
- 
Business Finland:  
Innovation Funding Agency Business Finland is an accelerator of global growth. We 
create new growth by helping businesses go global and by supporting and funding 
innovations. Our top experts and the latest research data enable companies to 
seize market opportunities and turn them into success stories. 
 
Business Finland was created on 1st January 2018 by the merger of two 
organizations: Finpro, which offered services for internationalization, investments 
and tourism promotion, and Tekes, which offered funding for innovation activities. 
We aim to develop Finland to be the most attractive and competitive innovation 
environment in which companies are able to grow, change, and succeed.. 
 
- 
CDTI: The Centre for the Development of Industrial Technology, E.P.E. (CDTI) is a 
Public Business Entity, answering to the Ministry of Economy, Industry and 
Competitiveness, which fosters the technological development and innovation of 
Spanish companies. It is the entity that channels the funding and support 
applications for national and international R&D&I projects of Spanish companies. 
 
- 
TÜBİTAK: TUBITAK is the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey 
(TÜBİTAK), leading agency for management, funding and conduct of research in 
Turkey. 
All parties will provide all necessary assistance to project partners during project 
proposal, evaluation and monitoring phase. In addition, all parties will facilitate 
EUREKA application process and acquisition of the EUREKA label for accepted 
proposals. 
These organizations will also provide access to public funding for labelled joint 
projects. The support will be given to each partner by its own authorities in accordance 
  
 
 
 
with the national laws, rules, regulations and procedures in effect, on a non-exchange 
of funds basis, and subject to budgetary availability. 
b. Call Launch and Structure 
The Call is announced in the field of industrial research and development between 
Argentina and respective EUREKA member countries within the EUREKA program. In 
order to submit a project proposal under this Call, at least 1 partner from Argentina 
and 1 partner from a EUREKA member or associated country participating in the Call 
must build a consortium.  
The Call is launched on 15 March 2018 by all parties.  
Eligible partners are invited to present joint proposals for industrial R&D projects 
according to the following procedures: 
c. Qualifications 
 
- 
The project consortium should consist of at least 1 company from Argentina 
and 1 company from one of the EUREKA member or associated countries 
participating in this Call. Participation of research institutes/universities is 
welcome as partners or subcontractors according to each country’s funding 
regulations. 
 
- 
Companies from other countries may also participate, but they will not be 
funded by the participating parties of this call. 
 
- 
The project partners must express the will to cooperate to the development of 
a new product, industrial process or service. The product, process or service 
must be innovative and there must be a technological risk involved. 
 
- 
The projects should come up within applied research and experimental 
development as defined in the Frascati1 manual. 
 
- 
The project should have an obvious advantage and added value resulting from 
the technological cooperation between the participants (e.g. increased 
knowledge base, commercial leads, access to R&D infrastructure etc.). 
                                                           
1 Frascati Manual: Guidelines for collecting and reporting data on Research and Experimental 
Development. OECD. www.oecd.org  
  
 
 
 
 
- 
The project should demonstrate the contribution of all the partners from the 
participating countries, and the project must be significant to them. 
 
- 
The duration of the project may not exceed 36 months. 
 
- 
The participants are required, prior the official endorsement of the Eureka High 
Level Group, to have signed a consortium agreement. 
Any partner whose cooperative R&D project is consistent with the aforesaid criteria 
can apply to the present announcement in accordance with the national laws, rules, 
regulations and procedures in effect. 
 
2. Submission procedure 
- 
Partners are asked to send their applications no later than 7 June 2018, 05:00 
pm CET. 
- 
Prior consultation with the official relevant contact person in the respective 
EUREKA office is strongly advised (see details below) in order to receive support 
on how to complete the application, the national funding rules, the timeline of 
the call, etc.  
 
- 
The application consist on: 
a. The common documents: 
a.1. EUREKA Project Application Form. The template can be downloaded at 
http://www.eurekanetwork.org/eureka-project-application-form. 
This document has to be legally signed by all participating companies. The 
signatures must be scanned and sent together with the EUREKA form as an 
integral part of the application. 
a.2. Consortium Agreement on the commercialization of the product, 
process or service once the phase of research and development has been 
completed which includes the ownership and use of know-how and IPR 
settlements.  
b. The National Application of each participant according to the national rules. 
  
 
 
 
- 
How to send the applications: 
- 
The completed EUREKA Project Application Form should be 
submitted by the main participant to the following email: 
globalstars@eurekanetwork.org with the following indication in the 
subject: Globalstars Argentina 2018 
 
- 
Each participant will send the EUREKA Application Form, the 
consortium agreement and the National Application before the 
deadline and simultaneously in all the countries involved in the 
project according to the national procedures. 
 
- 
Summary of the national procedures: 
- In Argentina, the participants will have to contact the national project 
officer to submit the proposal. 
 
- In Czech Republic, the participants will have to submit formal national 
project application through MEYS website http://www.msmt.cz/vyzkum-a-
vyvoj-2/inter-eureka including the signed version of EUREKA Application 
Form and Draft Consortium Agreement. 
 
- In Israel, The Israeli partner is required to submit the National Application 
Form in accordance with the Israel Innovation Authority regulations, 
through an online system https://bakasha.innovationisrael.org.il/ 
 
- In Finland, In Finland the participants will have to contact the NPC and to 
submit the proposal through the Business Finland online application 
system: 
https://www.businessfinland.fi/en/for-finnish-customers/online-services/ 
 
- In Spain, the participants will have to submit a formal R&D international 
project 
– 
Eureka 
project 
application 
through 
CDTI’s 
website 
(https://sede.cdti.gob.es/) including an updated application form and draft 
consortium agreement (additional documents could be provided 
depending on the funding requested). 
 
- In Turkey, the participants will have to submit a formal national application 
through TEYDEB’s website (https://eteydeb.tubitak.gov.tr/) including the 
signed version of EUREKA Application Form. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
3. Financing 
Each country will fund its eligible participants within EUREKA framework. Funding 
conditions and eligibility criteria may vary from country to country. As summary, main 
aspects of funding criteria are explained below: 
a. In Argentina: 
The founding will be provided by The National Agency for Scientific and 
Technological Promotion (ANPCYT), a national organization dependent on 
MINCyT in charge of promoting funding of projects aimed at improving social, 
economic and cultural conditions in Argentina. 
 
Non-Refundable Financial Contributions of up to 80% of the Argentinian 
company investment in the project. 
 
Only SMEs (according to Argentinean regulation) can apply for funding. 
Participation of non-SME companies is welcome, but these companies must 
send a letter committing to self-fund their participation in the project. 
Please contact MINCYT for further information regarding the funding criteria. 
See section 4 below for contact information. 
 
b. In  Czech Republic: 
 
The funding in the Czech Republic will be provided by the MEYS, National 
Funding Authority under the national programme INTER-EXCELLENCE and its 
part INTER-EUREKA.  
 
Czech companies – SMEs and Large companies - are eligible for submitting the 
project proposal and can be joined by universities and research organizations. 
MEYS will fund R&D projects by grants: SME´s up to 50% of eligible costs of the 
Czech project part; large companies up to 30% of eligible costs of the Czech 
project part and in total limited up to approx. 155,000 € per year (up to 
4,000,000 CZK). Project financing is done through grants. 
 
c. In Israel:  
Funding from the Israeli government via the Israel Innovation Authority will not 
exceed 50% of the eligible and approved costs of the R&D in the form of a 
conditional grant and in accordance with the R&D Law, national laws and 
regulations detailed at http://www.matimop.org.il/. Additional top-ups may 
apply to companies operating in developing zones. Funding will be provided in 
the form of a conditional grant. When a project results in sales of a product, 
service or process, the financial support must be repaid to the Israel Innovation 
Authority according to its regulations (in general, royalties are paid at rates 
  
 
 
 
beginning at 3% of sales, depending on various criteria. Royalties are payable 
until 100% of the amount of the grant has been repaid with interest as provided 
in the applicable regulations). If the project does not result in sales, no 
repayment is required. 
 
For more information on funding conditions, applicants should visit the website 
of the Israel Innovation Authority: 
https://innovationisrael.org.il/#home 
 
d. In Finland:  
Business Finland finances business research and development projects, and 
public research projects at universities, research institutes and universities of 
applied sciences. Every year, hundreds of companies and research groups work 
with Business Finland and receive funding from us for research, development 
and innovation activities. The funding information is publicly available.  More 
details you can explore here:  
 
https://www.businessfinland.fi/en/for-finnish-customers/about-us/funding-
information/ 
 
e. In Spain:  
CDTI will finance industrial research and/or technological development 
activities of Spanish companies. Universities and research centers can be 
funded as subcontractors. 
 
Funding conditions for Spanish partners may vary depending on the nature of 
the project and the beneficiary. For more information please access:  
http://www.cdti.es/index.asp?MP=101&MS=842&MN=2 
 
Spanish tasks in the project can only start after submitting the funding 
application to CDTI. For further information, please contact directly with CDTI. 
 
f. In Turkey:  
All companies which were established in accordance with Turkish law can apply 
for funding for their international projects. There is no budget limit for 
international projects and they can be funded by TUBITAK without any 
restriction in project duration. Only companies participating in international 
projects are funded within this program but universities and research centers 
can be funded as subcontractors.  
 
  
 
 
 
Companies receive certain percentage of their eligible costs as a grant in this 
call. There is no maximum or minimum limit to the budget of project. The 
percentage is 60% for large companies and 75% for SMEs.  
 
For further information about financing of Turkish participants please directly 
contact with TÜBİTAK. Detailed information can also be reached from here.
 
 
4. Endorsement of the projects: 
No later than 6 months since the Labelling of the projects, it is expected that the 
national funding phases have been finished and communicated to the Eureka 
Secretariat by completing the Early Progress Check. Once every member of the 
consortium has received the approval of the national funding or has confirmed the 
self-funding with a formal letter, the projects can be endorsed by the EUREKA HLG. 
 
5. Monitoring of the projects: 
The monitoring of the EUREKA projects will be performed according to the approved 
process for EUREKA Network Projects. 
  
 
 
 
 
6. Contacts for details 
Argentina 
MINCYT 
Emiliano Zapata 
Tel: +54-11-4899-5000 int. 4096 
Email: EZAPATA@mincyt.gob.ar 
 
Czech Republic 
MEYS (Prague) 
Mr. Josef Martinec 
Tel:+420 23481 2298 
Email: josef.martinec@msmt.cz 
 
Israel 
Israel Innovation Authority  
Mr. Alan Hofman 
Tel: (+972 3) 7157987  
Email: 
alan.hofman@innovationisrael.org.il 
 
Finland 
Business Finland 
Mr Kari Ruutu 
Tel: +358 50 5577733 
Email: kari.ruutu@businessfinland.fi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Spain 
CDTI (Madrid, Spain) 
Mr. Manuel Falcon 
Tel: +34 91 581 5607 
Email: manuel.falcon@cdti.es 
 
CDTI (Representative for South 
America) 
Mr. Francisco Sánchez 
Tel: +56-2-22049786 Ext. 54415 
Email: francisco.sanchez@cdti.es 
 
Turkey 
TÜBİTAK (Turkey) 
Mr. Tarık ŞAHİN 
Tel: +90 312 2989448 
Email: eureka@tubitak.gov.tr 
